# Live Audio Wrestling

Live Audio Wrestling (also known as The LAW) was a Canadian sports radio talk show hosted by "The Mouth" Dan Lovranski and Jason Agnew. The program primarily focused on news and events related to professional wrestling (such as WWE) and mixed martial arts. 
First premiering in May 1997 as an internet radio show, LAW later shifted to conventional radio on several stations in the Toronto area, and moved to CHUM-AM in 2011. Due to the show's popularity, TSN's Off the Record has featured  past and current co-hosts of the radio program as guest panelists over the years.
Live Audio Wrestling announced its cancellation on October 30, 2017, due to cutbacks following Anthem Sports & Entertainment's acquisition of TNA Wrestling, which impacted The LAW's syndicator, Fight Network Radio. Most of its segments and spin-off shows have since migrated to a new website, known as "Post Wrestling".

## History

Live Audio Wrestling premiered on May 23, 1997 as an internet radio show through Virtually Canadian, with Faarooq as its first guest. The show aired online for a year and a half before moving to CJCL, The Fan 590—however, it was still only broadcast online, since the show was broadcast as replacement programming due to NBA policies prohibiting the station's online feed from airing Toronto Raptors games. In an effort to secure studio time, the show was taped early in the morning. Due to popular demand and listener support, The LAW soon became part of The Fan's normal lineup, airing in the early afternoon on Saturdays. 
The show later expanded to include a two-hour late-night program on Sunday nights from 1:00 to 3:00 a.m., later moved to Saturdays at 11:00 p.m. in late 1999, while the afternoon edition moved to 5:00 p.m. In February 1999, Dave Meltzer of the Wrestling Observer Newsletter began a weekly segment during the program.
The LAW aired on The Fan 590 until September 2000 when it moved to rival station CFYI Talk 640 as a companion to the station's recently acquired radio broadcasts of Toronto Maple Leafs games. The evening broadcast was moved from Saturdays to Sundays. In April 2001, the afternoon edition of The LAW was dropped during the station's re-launch under the Mojo Radio format, while The LAW remained on the station through 2006
In January 2005, Fight Network purchased a majority stake in The LAW, and in February of that same year announced that they had secured an agreement with Broadcast News for national syndicated the program through Fight Network Radio. Affiliates of the group (aside from its flagship Toronto stations) included: CKST Vancouver, CFRN Edmonton, CFGO Ottawa, CHMJ Vancouver, and CJOB Winnipeg.
In July 2006, The LAW moved to CFRB and retained its 11pm time-slot. In the Fall 2006, LAW announced that the show would eventually begin to air in simulcast on Fight Network, though nothing came of it.
The show is ranked No. 1 in the demographic of male, on talk radio in the Toronto market, in its time slot. In April 2006, The Bureau of Broadcast Measurement released their spring ratings with The LAW ranking No. 1 among Males 25 - 49 on Sunday nights with an 18.7 share and also scoring a 17.8 share among Males 18 – 34.
Starting in the winter of 2007, John Pollock began to host an extended, online edition of The LAW called Live Audio Xtra. The segment is available to those who listen to the archived edition of the show on The LAW website, as an add-on to the original radio production. Shortly after its launch, Dan Lovranski began to co-host the segment, answering e-mail questions. Starting with the January 20th 2008 edition, Live Audio Xtra began to take call-in questions from listeners who were unable to get on the air during the radio portion of the program. This segment of the show was discontinued for a brief period of time, but returned to The LAW in 2011.

### Satellite radio, interim podcast, and CHUM

The LAW aired its final edition on CFRB on January 11, 2009, moving to the Sirius Satellite Radio channel Hardcore Sports Radio (later known as The Score Satellite Radio), maintaining its Sunday night timeslot, and still being produced from CFRB's studios. After the closure of The Score Satellite Radio in August 2011, The LAW briefly became a podcast on the Fight Network website; using the same format as the radio versions but without call-in segments.
On October 9, 2011, The LAW moved to CHUM AM; while the program maintained its traditional 11:00 p.m. timeslot, it is preempted by Sunday Night Football during the NFL season.
The LAW began airing on CHUM's sister station CFTE in Vancouver on September 9, 2012. The LAW currently does not air on any other TSN Radio station.

### Cancellation

On the morning of October 30, 2017, the LAW issued a statement:

The announcement came fourteen hours after the October 29 edition of The LAW was made available for podcasting. The host's initial plan for the next week involved a returning John Pollock reviewing Impact's Bound For Glory 2017, and UFC 217.
It was reported on the Wrestling Observer / Figure Four Online website in Dave Meltzer's October 30 Daily Update that;

On the October 31 edition of Wrestling Observer Radio, Meltzer stated "The amount of money that they're (Anthem) losing on Impact, has led to them doing cuts on the Fight Network" and "All the particulars (Presenters) that were on the show you know, are going to be gone." He went on to speculate that The LAW may be turned into an "Impact promotional show".
Many of the LAW hosts including those from the associated podcasts received overwhelming support from their fans on Twitter, including Jason Agnew, John Pollock, Wai Ting, Braden Herrington, "Bartender" Dave, Brian Mann, and Nate Milton, while Chris Charlton, WH Park, Martian Bushby, and Richard Benson publicly thanked The LAW & John Pollock for their opportunities with "Japanese Audio Wrestling" and "British Audio Wrestling" respectively. Oli Court of "British Audio Wrestling" hinted "it's not the end of anything just yet!" and Jojo Remy of "Japanese Audio Wrestling" stated "Not sure what this means for my show. I’ll continue to be a strong presence at Voices of Wrestling."
Starting with the day after the shutdown of the LAW, John Pollock and Wai Ting continued to post audio reviews of Raw and SmackDown, under the temporary titles of John Pollock and Wai Ting Review Raw and John Pollock and Wai Ting Review SmackDown, respectively. On their first episode as independent podcasters, both hosts (Pollock had been one of Fight Network's longest-tenured employees, and, at the time of their release, one of the few remaining full-time journalists) discussed the news of being released from Fight Network (also stating that Dan "The Mouth" Lovranski and Jason Agnew were released), thanking their fans for all the support they received, their plans for their "future endeavours", alongside the review of Raw.

### Post cancellation

In January 2018, Impact Wrestling announced that a new show with the Live Audio Wrestling name will air as part of its Twitch channel, as a video podcast hosted by Jeremy Borash. The new show was officially announced on April 3, 2018 as Sunday Night's Main Event, and was set to air the following Sunday; immediately following Wrestlemania 34. However, owing to Borash's departure in April 2018, the show never aired.
The spiritual successor of Live Audio Wrestling in its original form, titled "POST Wrestling" (the name is an abbreviation of "Pollock Offsets Ting"), was announced on December 15, 2017, and launched on December 24, 2017. It owned in its entirety by John Pollock and Wai Ting, and launched with their annual Christmas show that they had been doing from their days on the LAW.Two temporary podcasts done by the duo were folded under the Post Wrestling banner, becoming Rewind-a-Raw and Rewind-a-SmackDown, while other LAW podcasts would eventually be relaunched.

## Show

### Segments

Dave Meltzer's Wrestling Observer Extra: Each week industry insider Dave Meltzer joins the LAW to discuss the latest in pro wrestling and Mixed Martial Arts.
Title Bout Trivia: Wrestling themed quiz where the winner receives a T-shirt from "Barber Shop Window" or "Pro Wrestling Tees".
LAW Interviews: In depth and full-length interviews with wrestling's top stars from the past and present.
Breaking The LAW: The Host read some fan feedback on the week in wrestling from "lawradio.proboards.com".
LAW Xtra: Occasionally added on the end of the podcast, it covers smaller pay-per-view reviews (e.g. ROH, NJPW) or may include additional interviews.
whtsNXTra: Added on the end of the podcast, covers NXT Takeover reviews.

### Hosts

Former co-hosts of the show include:

Dan "The Mouth" Dan Lovranski (Producer: 1998–2000 / Host: 2000–2017)
Jason Agnew (Producer: 1999–2003 / Host: 2003–2017)
John Pollock (Editor: 2003–2005 / Producer: 2005–2017)
Trish Stratus (Host: 1999)
"Notorious T.I.D." Chris Tidwell (Host: 1997–1999)
"Big Daddy" Donnie Abreu (Host: 1997–2000)
"Gentleman" Jeff Marek (Host: 1997–2003)

Former co-hosts of the spinoff series shows include:

Jason Agnew ("whts NXT": 2013–2017).
John Pollock ("Review-A-Wai": 2009–2017; "Review-A-Raw": 2010–2017; "Review-A-SmackDown": 2011–2017; "The MMA Report": 2012–2017; "Bauer & Pollock": ?-2017)
Wai Ting ("Review-A-Wai": 2009–2017; "Review-A-Raw": 2010–2017; "Review-A-SmackDown": 2011–2017)
Braden Herrington ("whts NXT": 2013–2017).
"Bartender" Dave ("whts NXT": 2016–2017).
Brian Mann ("Review-An-Impact"/"Keep It 2000": 2015–2017).
Nate Milton ("Review-An-Impact"/"Keep It 2000": 2015–2017).
Jojo Remy ("Japanese Audio Wrestling": 2017–2017).
WH Park ("Japanese Audio Wrestling": 2012–2017).
Chris Charlton ("Japanese Audio Wrestling": 2012–2017).
Martian Bushby ("British Audio Wrestling": 2017–2017).
Oli Court ("British Audio Wrestling": 2017–2017).
Richard Benson ("British Audio Wrestling": 2017–2017).
^ List of presenters only until time of hiatus, for full list of former presenters and spinoff series shows see below.

## Spinoffs

Over the years, there have been several radio shows and podcasts that have complemented the LAW. Since the shutdown of the LAW, these shows were also put on hiatus, with many of them migrating to Post Wrestling upon the latter's launch in December 2017.

### Review-A-Raw

As a spinoff of Review-A-Wai, John Pollock and Wai Ting also review each week's edition of WWE Raw in a separate podcast series. As with Review-A-Wai, each episode John Pollock and Wai Ting run down the previous episode of WWE Raw and end by reading listener feedback. The first episode of Review-A-Raw was posted on July 6, 2010.  For a time in 2011, Review-A-Raw was available as a live podcast, airing over the internet via Stickam immediately following WWE Raw, but it reverted to a taped format over technical issues resulting in one or both hosts being knocked off of the air.
As announced during a live Review-A-Wai podcast held immediately prior to WrestleMania 31, the Review-A-Raw name expanded to also encompass a television series broadcast on Fight Network, with John Pollock and Wai Ting as co-hosts. The televised version of Review-A-Raw is effectively a televised recording session of the podcast, with the actual WWE Raw review content identical in both versions.  However, some segments have been modified to suit the television audience, such as the omission of listener feedback and a shorter banter portion at the start of the show that more directly relates to the co-hosts' positions at Fight Network.  As both the podcast and televised shows are produced in the same sitting, there may be segments omitted from the televised portion; a selection of segments from the podcast version may be, at their discretion, posted to the Fight Network's YouTube page as Review-A-Raw Extra; the first Review-A-Raw Extra segment was dedicated to a contest selecting the televised series' theme music.  As the podcast version takes precedence, the television edition of the show is likely to be pre-empted in the event of other Fight Network commitments by either host; this first occurred on July 5, 2016, where Jason Agnew would host an audio-only edition in lieu of the televised show, due to John and Wai covering UFC 200 for Fight Network.  The final "podcast-only" episode of Review-A-Raw was posted March 31, 2015, with the first episode of the televised series aired on Fight Network on April 7, 2015.
In January 2016, John Pollock and Wai Ting also produced an additional televised segment, Raw in 3 Minutes, co-branded with Fight Network's Fight News Now branding; both the full televised version and Raw in 3 Minutes is available from the Live Audio Wrestling YouTube channel.  In mid-2017, Review-A-Raw was made into a web-only video series alongside Review-a-SmackDown, ending the run of Raw in 3 Minutes.
The last episode of Review-a-Raw was posted on October 23, 2017. Following the shutdown of the LAW a week later, John Pollock and Wai Ting continued to post audio reviews of Raw under the temporary title of John Pollock and Wai Ting Review Raw. The full-time replacement for Review-a-Raw under the Post Wrestling banner, Rewind-a-Raw, launched on December 25, 2017.

### Review-A-SmackDown

On selected weeks with a live episode of WWE SmackDown, a third LAW podcast starring John Pollock and Wai Ting is also available for download on Wednesdays. Like Review-A-Raw and Review-An-Impact, Review-A-SmackDown reviews the previous episode of WWE SmackDown, ending with listener feedback. The first episode of Review-A-SmackDown was posted on August 31, 2011, with Jason Agnew filling in for Wai Ting; the first episode with Wai Ting was posted on December 1, 2011.  Up until the second WWE brand extension, Review-A-SmackDown would be produced only on a show-by-show basis, and not every live episode of WWE SmackDown would be reviewed.
Review-A-SmackDown would become a weekly podcast with the second WWE brand extension, complementing Review-A-Raw.  Unlike Review-A-Raw, however, Review-A-SmackDown is intended to remain an audio-only podcast, and not a show that is meant to air on Fight Network.  The first regular episode of Review-A-SmackDown was posted on July 19, 2016, covering the WWE draft that kicked off the second WWE brand extension.
For a brief time in 2017, Review-a-Smackdown was also made available as a web video, under the same format as Review-a-Raw.  The last episode of Review-a-Smackdown was posted on October 25, 2017.  Following the shutdown of the LAW later that week, John Pollock and Wai Ting continued to post audio reviews of SmackDown under the temporary title of John Pollock and Wai Ting Review SmackDown.  The full-time replacement of Review-a-SmackDown, under the Post Wrestling banner, Rewind-a-SmackDown, launched on December 27, 2017.

### whtsNXT

whtsNXT (pronounced as "what's next") is a podcast hosted by Jason Agnew and technical producer Braden Herrington, focusing on NXT, while incorporating elements from Bite Network Radio.  The name was chosen to not only reflect the product being reviewed (a show based on developmental wrestling), but also the fact that this was Braden's first foray into radio broadcasting (having joined shortly after the LAW debuted on TSN Radio as one of his first industry jobs), and a turning point in Agnew's television career (having left Bite TV since the LAW debuted on TSN Radio, leaving him with no permanent work in television aside from Splatalot).  It is seen as continuing in the "rite of passage" of LAW hosts moving up the ranks (Dan Lovranski, Jason Agnew, John Pollock, and Wai Ting were all, at one point, technical producers on The LAW), with the veteran Agnew guiding the rookie Braden, akin to NXT itself.  The first episode was posted on October 7, 2013 as an addition to the LAW's podcast, but thereafter was separately posted on Thursdays thereafter.
"Bartender" Dave debuted on the January 21st 2016 edition of "whtsNXT" alongside Jason Agnew, he has since become a regular guest host on the show. Since Takeover's moved to Saturdays on the same weekend as the WWE's Big 4 events, Takeover reviews have been added onto the end of The LAW podcast under the title of "whtsNXTra". Also since 2017 whtsNXT has chosen to skip the review of the post-Takeover NXT episodes, stating there's no point in reviewing a review show.
The last episode of whtsNXT was posted on October 26, 2017. A spiritual successor under the Post Wrestling banner, titled upNXT and hosted by Braden Herrington and Davie Portman, was launched on March 22, 2018.

### Review-A-Wai

"Review-A-Wai" is a weekly review podcast starring John Pollock and Wai Ting, which was originally presented immediately following the archived episode of the LAW and was later made available separately.  The first episode was posted on September 13, 2009.
The two primarily review older wrestling pay-per-view events from the mid to late 1990s, but have since branched out to other media relating to wrestling and mixed martial arts.  Notably, in a homage to an early "Ask-a-Wai" episode where John and Wai reviewed a wrestling-related pornographic film, the second and third anniversary shows had John and Wai review a wrestling-related pornographic film; the visible discomfort of Wai reviewing the film has led them to discontinue reviewing wrestling-related pornographic films.  Reviews of classic events often contain audio clips from the show(s) they are reviewing; at the end of the show, John and Wai also respond to listener feedback after the review.  On occasion, they air relevant clips from previous interviews conducted with various wrestling personalities and/or interview people involved with the event being reviewed, including clips from past "Live Audio Wrestling" shows.  Each episode also ends with a piece of music specifically selected by one of the co-hosts, often relating to the show being reviewed.
On occasion, when either co-host is unavailable, a substitute co-host has joined the other co-host; most notably, Arda Ocal has been a guest reviewer on "Review-A-Wai" on several occasions during the years that the LAW and "Aftermath" (The Score Television Network's wrestling analysis show, co-hosted by Arda Ocal) were promoted together.  Damian Abraham has also been a frequent guest reviewer, especially if the review contains a punk rock element.
The show ceased to be an add-on to the archived episode of the LAW in 2010 when the "Review-A-Wai" portion became as long as the archived episode of the LAW itself. "Review-A-Wai" was moved to a Wednesday release schedule following its second anniversary show, and later to late Tuesdays following the debut of "whtsNXT" so as to avoid multiple LAW podcasts being released on the same day.  With the launch of "Review-A-SmackDown" as a regular weekly series, "Review-A-Wai" became a biweekly series posted on Fridays, alternating with "Bauer & Pollock". Following the end of "Bauer & Pollock", "Review-A-Wai" will continue to be a biweekly series on Fridays alternating with "Keep It 2000".
The final episode of Review-a-Wai was posted on October 19, 2017, with an announced episode that would have aired had the LAW not been shut down.  The first episode of the spiritual successor of Review-a-Wai under the Post Wrestling banner, Rewind-a-Wai, launched with the review intended for the announced episode.

### Japanese Audio Wrestling

Japanese Audio Wrestling is a monthly podcast hosted by Chris Charlton and WH Park, both having previously contributed to various LAW-related shows and podcasts, focusing in on Japanese wrestling.  The first episode was posted on August 1, 2012. New host Jojo Remy joined the show on the January 6th, 2017, replacing the leaving pair of Chris Charlton & WH Park. From the 2017 April 3 edition WH Park has made a number of returning guest appearances.
Although put on hiatus with the shutdown of the LAW in October 2017, as part of the launch of Post Wrestling, it was announced that Japanese Audio Wrestling would continue under the Post Wrestling banner with a new name, with no specified timeframe for a relaunch.

G1 Climax podcast
Related to Japanese Audio Wrestling is the LAW's daily coverage of the G1 Climax tournament each year, with John Pollock recapping most days of the tournament and Chris Charlton and WH Park recapping the remaining days of the tournament.

### The MMA Report with John Pollock

The MMA Report with John Pollock is a radio show hosted by John Pollock on TSN Radio, first airing on July 5, 2012. It airs Friday at midnight on TSN Radio (though the show itself is available as a podcast on the LAW podcast feed one day before), and is touted as "the third hour" of the LAW as repeats of the show air immediately after the LAW on weeks without an Ultimate Fighting Championship pay-per-view (when The UFC Post Fight Show airs in its place instead).  As with the LAW, it is also broadcast in the Vancouver market (formerly CFTE and presently CKST) since 2013.
The show is also considered to be a spiritual successor to Fight Network Radio, due to John Pollock's past and present connections.

### Keep It 2000

In December 2016, Brian Mann and Nate Milton returned with a new podcast, Keep It 2000 (billed as "A Podcast On A Pole"). They embarked on fully chronicling every WCW Nitro from the year 2000.  These 52 episodes could prove to be the thing that finally breaks these podcasting brothers apart.
The final episode of Keep it 2000 as a LAW podcast was posted on October 14, 2017. As part of the Post Wrestling launch in December 2017, it was announced that Keep it 2000 would continue under the Post Wrestling umbrella; the first episode of Keep It 2000 under the Post Wrestling umbrella was posted on January 25, 2018.

### British Audio Wrestling

British Audio Wrestling is a British Wrestling focused podcast launched by Martin Bushby and Oli Court,  with the first episode posted on January 6, 2017. The pair were joined by Richard Benson of The Indy Corner from Episode 2 onwards. The show focuses in on UK promotions "Progress Wrestling", "Revolution Pro Wrestling", "Fight Club: PRO" & "Over The Top Wrestling" and also covers "ITV World of Sport Wrestling" & the "WWE United Kingdom Championship Tournament".
The final episode of British Audio Wrestling was posted on October 17, 2017.  As part of the Post Wrestling launch in December 2017, it was announced that British Audio Wrestling would continue under the Post Wrestling umbrella under a new name, later revealed to be the British Wrestling Experience. The first episode of the British Wrestling Experience launched on January 18, 2018.

### Bauer & Pollock

Bauer & Pollock is a co-production between Live Audio Wrestling and Major League Wrestling, where John Pollock and Court Bauer discuss the business of professional wrestling and mixed martial arts. Although initially designed to be a biweekly series, it was moved to a weekly format soon after, available on both the MLW and LAW podcast feeds.  The show was originally posted on Fridays, but was moved to late Wednesdays to avoid having multiple LAW podcasts being posted on the same day.  With the launch of Review-A-SmackDown as a weekly series, Bauer & Pollock became a biweekly series posted on Fridays, alternating with Review-A-Wai. After a lengthy hiatus on 12 January 12, 2017, "The Final Edition" of Bauer & Pollock was uploaded. The reason behind the decision to end Bauer & Pollock was the large workloads of each host and inability to find a common free day to do the podcast. On March 17, 2017, Court & John returned for a "One-Off" special, continuing to do almost one show every month since.

### Ask-A-Wai / Bite Network Radio

Ask-A-Wai was an add-on to the end of each LAW broadcast starting in September 2008, and starred John Pollock and Wai Ting, then call screener on the LAW. It was taped immediately following Live Audio Xtra, and was a general discussion podcast and generally unrelated to wrestling.  In late 2009, Jason Agnew joined Ask-A-Wai as a co-host, though retaining the same format as before.
Ask-A-Wai ended with the move of the LAW from CFRB to Hardcore Sports Radio, though the Ask-A-Wai format would be succeeded with the Bite Network Radio podcast.  Bite Network Radio itself would be hosted by Jason Agnew and John Pollock, retaining the format of Ask-A-Wai, and occasionally featuring Wai Ting and other members from their circle of friends.  Like Ask-A-Wai, Bite Network Radio was taped immediately following the LAW.
Bite Network Radio ended with the move of the LAW to TSN Radio, as the studios at TSN could no longer accommodate all of the regular hosts.  Though The Late Shift, a radio show hosted by Jason Agnew on CFRB, is touted as the spiritual successor of Bite Network Radio, it follows a different format and has no formal association to the LAW.

### UFC Post Fight Show on TSN Radio

Starting in 2011 with UFC 140, The LAW started to present a UFC post fight show on TSN Radio 1050. The show airs after the conclusion of the most recent Ultimate Fighting Championship event and provides results and opinions from callers and MMA journalists.  Though originally branded as a LAW show, since the launch of The MMA Report the show has used the latter show's branding.

### Review-An-Impact

Each Saturday (some episodes may be delayed to Sunday), former WWE writer Brian Mann and frequent LAW contributor Nate Milton review the previous edition of Impact Wrestling.
Originally hosted by John Pollock and Wai Ting as a counterpart to Review-a-Raw, the first episode of Review-An-Impact was posted on November 5, 2010.  Since September 2011, Nate Milton (nicknamed "The Godfather, TNAte" in the LAW community) has been featured in a recurring segment on Review-An-Impact where he provides separate analysis of the episode; this was often in the form of an interview with one of the co-hosts. In the event that either host was unavailable, Nate takes on the role of co-host for the entire podcast in place of the segment.  In late 2014, due to Wai Ting's other commitments, Nate Milton became a co-host on a more full-time basis, though the arrangement lasted for only a few weeks due to the termination of Impact Wrestling on Spike TV; Wai Ting's final episode of Review-An-Impact was on October 23, 2014.
With the relaunch of Impact Wrestling on Destination America, Review-An-Impact was revamped with Brian Mann as the lead host, initially with John Pollock as co-host in the pilot episode on January 8, 2015, and with Nate Milton as co-host on a full-time basis on the following episode.  Due to being the first "all-American podcast" in the LAW family, and with neither co-host hosting another LAW podcast, Review-An-Impact also expanded their scope to include their commentary on general wrestling news, diversity issues in professional wrestling, pop culture (largely as a result of Brian later joining Yahoo! Movies), and politics in general.
With the declining relevance of TNA in North American professional wrestling in 2015 (and the impending end of the TNA/Destination America partnership), Live Audio Wrestling decided to terminate coverage of TNA following the 2015 Bound for Glory event; the final regular episode of Review-an-Impact (an episode dedicated to counting down the "Top 10 moments in Impact Wrestling history") aired on October 3, 2015.

### Keep It 100

Billed as "the realest show about being fake", Keep it 100 is a podcast that serves as a spiritual successor to Review-An-Impact, hosted by Brian Mann and Nate Milton.  The idea behind the show came from the viewer feedback segments from Review-an-Impact, where general questions regarding the co-hosts' opinions started to dominate the discourse as opposed to feedback related to episodes of the episodes of Impact Wrestling being reviewed.  With Live Audio Wrestling deciding to terminate coverage of TNA, it was agreed that the viewer feedback segment would effectively be expanded to cover the entire show.
The concept of this podcast, where the co-hosts must answer every question asked of them with absolute truth, was largely inspired by the segment of the same name on The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore.  Similar to its predecessor, topics covered by the show are primarily focused on general wrestling news, diversity in professional wrestling, wrestling as it relates to pop culture, with a slight nod to politics.  The first episode aired on October 9, 2015.
Due to the hosts' other commitments, Keep It 100 aired for only seven weeks as a weekly series, though various special shows have been posted on an irregular basis, including those dedicated to covering TNA special events.

### Review-A-Merica

"Review-A-Merica" was a one-off podcast covering the 2012 United States presidential election from the perspective of two Canadians (John and Wai).
In 2016, Brian and Nate revived the "Review-A-Merica" podcast for a series of shows covering the 2016 United States presidential election from a "wrestling with democracy" perspective.

### Ask-A-Wai Video Podcast

The Ask-A-Wai name would later be reused for a video podcast series featuring John Pollock and Wai Ting in late 2011, as a complement to Review-A-Wai, where John Pollock and Wai Ting answered questions submitted by Review-A-Wai fans regarding pro wrestling and mixed martial arts. Though originally filmed in the "Review-A-Wai studios" at Fight Network, later entries were filmed in various locations in and around downtown Toronto.  A short-lived revival of Ask-A-Wai was also posted as a YouTube series on the Live Audio Wrestling YouTube channel in 2015, it ended in May 2016.
The Ask-A-Wai name would be used following the shutdown of the LAW, as a monthly audio podcast for Patreon supporters of Post Wrestling.

### CWCeen

In 2016, a separate show, CWCeen, was added to the end of whtsNXT, covering the WWE Cruiserweight Classic.  This show was hosted by Braden Herrington and Wai Ting, and includes banter on their common love of hip-hop, as well as the fact that Braden Herrington had joined Fight Network after leaving TSN Radio.

## End of Year Awards

| The LAW: Best of Awards |
|---|
| Best Wrestler: Male Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Shawn Michaels (WWE) Edge (WWE) Nigel McGuinness (ROH) 2009 Chris Jericho (WWE) Chris Jericho (WWE) Chris Jericho (WWE) 2010 The Miz (WWE) The Miz (WWE) John Cena (WWE) 2011 CM Punk (WWE) CM Punk (WWE) Hiroshi Tanahashi (NJPW & CMLL) 2012 Michael Elgin (ROH & PWG) Dolph Ziggler (WWE) Hiroshi Tanahashi (NJPW & CMLL) CM Punk (WWE) 2013 Daniel Bryan (WWE) Daniel Bryan (WWE) Hiroshi Tanahashi (NJPW & CMLL) Daniel Bryan (WWE) 2014 Katsuyori Shibata (NJPW) Sami Zayn (WWE) Shinsuke Nakamura (NJPW) Dolph Ziggler (WWE) 2015 Shinsuke Nakamura (NJPW)* h/m AJ Styles (ROH & NJPW) Jay Lethal (ROH) AJ Styles (ROH & NJPW) 2016 Kenny Omega (NJPW) AJ Styles (NJPW & ROH & WWE) AJ Styles (NJPW & ROH & WWE) AJ Styles (NJPW & ROH & WWE) Best Wrestler: Female Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Beth Phoenix (WWE)* h/m Trish Stratus (WWE) Gail Kim (TNA) Gail Kim (TNA) 2009 Beth Phoenix (WWE) Beth Phoenix (WWE) Ayako Hamada (TNA & Shimmer) 2010 Natalya (WWE) LayCool (WWE) Sara Del Rey (Shimmer, Chikara & ROH) 2011 Sara Del Rey (Shimmer, Chikara & ROH) Madison Rayne (TNA) Sara Del Rey (Shimmer, Chikara & ROH) 2012 Tara (TNA) Tara (TNA) & Ronda Rousey (SF & UFC) Tara (TNA) Ronda Rousey (SF & UFC) 2013 Mickie James (TNA) AJ Lee (WWE) AJ Lee (WWE) AJ Lee (WWE) 2014 Charlotte (WWE) Charlotte (WWE) Natalya (WWE) Charlotte (WWE) 2015 Bayley (WWE) Bayley (WWE) Sasha Banks (WWE) 2016 Charlotte (WWE) Charlotte (WWE) Charlotte (WWE)* h/m Auska (WWE) Charlotte (WWE) Best Tag Team Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 John Morrison and The Miz (WWE) * h/m Beer Money, Inc. (TNA) John Morrison and The Miz (WWE) * h/m Beer Money, Inc. (TNA) Beer Money, Inc. (TNA) 2009 Jeri-Show (WWE) Jeri-Show (WWE) Beer Money, Inc. (TNA) 2010 The Motor City Machine Guns (TNA & ROH) & Beer Money, Inc. (TNA) The Motor City Machine Guns (TNA & ROH) Kings of Wrestling (ROH & Noah) 2011 The Briscoe Brothers (ROH) Beer Money, Inc. (TNA) Beer Money, Inc. (TNA) 2012 Daniels and Kazarian (TNA) Daniels and Kazarian (TNA) Daniels and Kazarian (TNA) Daniels and Kazarian (TNA) 2013 Goldust and Cody Rhodes (WWE) Goldust and Cody Rhodes (WWE) The Shield (WWE) Goldust and Cody Rhodes (WWE) 2014 reDRagon (ROH & NJPW) The Young Bucks (ROH, NJPW & PWG) The Young Bucks (ROH, NJPW & PWG) The Young Bucks (ROH, NJPW & PWG) 2015 The Young Bucks (ROH, NJPW & PWG) Jason Jordan and Chad Gable (WWE) reDRagon (ROH & NJPW) 2016 The Young Bucks (ROH, NJPW & PWG) The Young Bucks (ROH, NJPW & PWG) The Young Bucks (ROH, NJPW & PWG) The Revival (WWE) Best on the Mic This award is given to the wrestler or mixed martial artist who is the most natural at cutting promos or otherwise conversing on the microphone. From 2017 this award will be spit in two with "Best Wrestler on the Mic" & "Best Mixed Martial Artist on the Mic". Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Chris Jericho Santino Marella Santino Marella 2009 CM Punk(h/m Chris Jericho) CM Punk Frank Mir 2010 The Miz The Miz Chael Sonnen 2011 CM Punk CM Punk CM Punk 2012 Paul Heyman CM Punk CM Punk CM Punk 2013 Bully Ray Paul Heyman CM Punk Bully Ray 2014 Conor McGregor Paul Heyman & Conor McGregor Conor McGregor Paul Heyman 2015 Conor McGregor Conor McGregor Conor McGregor 2016 Conor McGregor(Kevin Owens) Kevin Owens & Chis Jericho(h/m: Enzo) (MMA) Conor McGregor(Wrestler) Kevin Owens (MMA) Conor McGregor(Wrestler) Kevin Owens & Chris Jericho Best Announcer This award is given to the wrestling or mixed martial arts announcer, whether play-by-play or colour commentary. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Matt Striker Matt Striker& Joe Rogan Matt Striker 2009 Frank Mir Joe Rogan Mauro Ranallo 2010 Mauro Ranallo Joe Rogan Joe Rogan 2011 Joe Rogan Joe Rogan Pat Miletich 2012 Joe Rogan Joe Rogan Nigel McGuinness Joe Rogan 2013 William Regal Joe Rogan NJPW's Shinpei Nogami Joe Rogan 2014 Steve Corino & Brian Stann Joe Rogan Brian Stann Steve Corino & John "Bradshaw" Layfield 2015 Mauro Ranallo(h/m Steve Corino) Joe Rogan Mauro Ranallo 2016 Corey Graves Corey Graves Steve Corino Corey Graves Best Non-Wrestling Performer This award is given to the best performer in the world of wrestling that does not participate in matches, such as managers and valets. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Vickie Guerrero Vickie Guerrero Vickie Guerrero 2009 Jim Cornette Don West Don West 2010 Vickie Guerrero Eric Bischoff& Michael Cole Vickie Guerrero 2011 John Laurinaitis Ricardo Rodriguez Karen Jarrett 2012 Paul Heyman Paul Heyman Joseph Park Paul Heyman 2013 Paul Heyman Zeb Colter Paul Heyman Zeb Colter 2014 Lana Rockstar Spud(h/m WWE referee Darrick Moore) Paul Heyman Paul Heyman 2015 Dario Cueto Paul Heyman Paul Heyman (h/m Dario Cueto) 2016 Vanguard 1& Señor Benjamin& King Maxel Allie Tom Phillips(h/m: King Maxel)(h/m: Renee Young) Paul Heyman Most Improved This award is given to the wrestler or fighter who has improved the most in terms of their skills development. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Brock Lesnar Rashad Evans Kenny Florian 2009 The Miz Eric Young(h/m Kofi Kingston) (h/m The Miz) Brutus Magnus 2010 The Miz Alberto Del Rio(h/m John Morrison) The Miz 2011 Dolph Ziggler(h/m Brooke Tessmacher) Dolph Ziggler Mark Henry(h/m Devon) 2012 Kazuchika Okada Kazarian Kazuchika Okada Austin Aries 2013 Magnus Magnus Adam Cole Team Alpha Male 2014 Bobby Lashley Ethan Carter III Ethan Carter III Tyson Kidd 2015 Corey Graves Corey Graves Rafael dos Anjos& Jay Lethal 2016 AJ Styles Alexa Bliss The Miz(h/m: Guerrillas of Destiny)(h/m: David Finlay) Tye Dillinger Best Comeback This award is given to the wrestler or fighter who has maintained their form after a long absence from wrestling or fighting. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Frank Mir Brock Lesnar Frank Mir 2009 Maryse as "The Gobbledy Gooker" Ricky Steamboat Ricky Steamboat 2010 Bret Hart(h/m Jerry Lawler) Chris Leben Paul Bearer& Stephan Bonnar 2011 Mark Henry(h/m Frankie Edgar) Mark Henry(h/m Cheick Kongo) The Rock 2012 Brock Lesnar Brock Lesnar Antônio Rodrigo Nogueira Ryback 2013 Goldust Goldust Goldust& Robbie Lawler Goldust 2014 The Ultimate Warrior& Dominick Cruz Bobby Lashley Dominick Cruz Sting(h/m The Ultimate Warrior) 2015 The Dudley Boyz(h/m Andrei Arlovski) Samoa Joe Tetsuya Naito 2016 Goldberg Goldberg Goldberg Goldberg Best Gimmick This award is given to the best character or character trait in wrestling or mixed martial arts. First awarded in 2008 as a last-minute addition to the list of awards. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Santino Marella Santino Marella Santino Marella 2009 CM Punk as straight-edge character CM Punk as straight-edge character CM Punk as straight-edge character 2010 Nexus The Miz after winning Money in the Bank Jay Lethal impersonating Ric Flair& Jeff Jarrett as a MMA fighter 2011 Cody Rhodes as disfigured character Ronda Rousey defeating opponents with the Armbar Ronda Rousey defeating opponents with the Armbar 2012 Damien Sandow Daniel Bryan 'Yes!' Chant Bully Ray Joseph Park 2013 The Wyatt Family Aiden English The Shield Antonio Cesaro's Big Swing 2014 Rusev Damien Mizdow Rusev and Lana Tyler Breeze 2015 The New Day (h/m Beer City Brusier) Bayley (h/m Dalton Castle) Bayley 2016 Broken Matt Hardy Broken Matt Hardy&Brother Nero Broken Matt Hardy Broken Matt Hardy Match of the Year This award is given to the best wrestling match of the year. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Shawn Michaels vs. Ric Flair(WrestleMania XXIV) Samoa Joe vs. Kurt Angle(TNA Lockdown)(h/m Shawn Michaels vs. Ric Flair(WrestleMania XXIV)) Samoa Joe vs. Kurt Angle(TNA Lockdown) 2009 Edge vs. Jeff Hardy(WWE Extreme Rules) Chris Jericho vs. Rey Mysterio(WWE The Bash)& Edge vs. Jeff Hardy(WWE Extreme Rules) The Undertaker vs. Shawn Michaels(WrestleMania XXV) 2010 The Undertaker vs. Shawn Michaels(WrestleMania XXVI) Daniel Bryan vs. Dolph Ziggler(WWE Bragging Rights)(h/m The Undertaker vs. Shawn Michaels(WrestleMania XXVI)) Tyler Black vs. Davey Richards(ROH Death Before Dishonor VIII) 2011 John Cena vs. CM Punk(WWE Money in the Bank)(h/m Davey Richards vs. Eddie Edwards(ROH Best in the World)) John Cena vs. CM Punk(WWE Money in the Bank)& Dolph Ziggler vs. Randy Orton(WWE Raw) Davey Richards vs. Eddie Edwards(ROH Best in the World) 2012 Davey Richards vs. Michael Elgin(Showdown in the Sun) Brock Lesnar vs. John Cena(WWE Extreme Rules) The Undertaker vs Triple H(WrestleMania 28) The Undertaker vs Triple H(WrestleMania 28) 2013 Katsuyori Shibata vs. Tomohiro Ishii(G-1 Climax, Day 4) The Undertaker vs. CM Punk(WrestleMania 29) Katsuyori Shibata vs. Tomohiro Ishii(G-1 Climax, Day 4) Shinsuke Nakamura vs. Kazushi Sakuraba(Wrestle Kingdom VII) 2014 Hiroshi Tanahashi vs. Katsuyori Shibata(NJPW Destruction in Kobe) Charlotte vs. Natalya(NXT Takeover) Atlantis vs. Último Guerrero(CMLL 81st Anniversary Show) Charlotte vs. Natalya(NXT Takeover) 2015 Shinsuke Nakamura vs. Kota Ibushi(Wrestle Kingdom 9)(h/m Shinsuke Nakamura vs. Roderick Strong(Global Wars '15)) Bayley vs. Sasha Banks(NXT TakeOver: Brooklyn) Shinsuke Nakamura vs. Kota Ibushi(Wrestle Kingdom 9) 2016 Kenny Omega vs. Tetsuya Naito(G1 Climax) The Miz vs. Cesaro vs. Kevin Owens vs. Sami Zayn(Extreme Rules) Kazuchika Okada vs. Hiroshi Tanahashi(Wrestle Kingdom 10)(h/m) Kenny Omega vs. Tetsuya Naito(G1 Climax)(h/m) Will Ospreay, Ricochet, & Matt Sydal vs. Adam Cole & The Young Bucks(Battle Of Los Angeles - Stage 2) Sami Zayn vs. Shinsuke Nakamura(Takeover: Dallas) Feud of the Year This award is given to the best protracted storyline, typically between wrestlers, but the award is not strictly restricted to wrestling. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Chris Jericho vs. Shawn Michaels(h/m Edge vs. The Undertaker) Chris Jericho vs. Shawn Michaels Chris Jericho vs. Shawn Michaels 2009 CM Punk vs. Jeff Hardy(h/m Rashad Evans vs. Quinton Jackson) CM Punk vs. Jeff Hardy Brock Lesnar vs. Frank Mir(h/m Chris Jericho vs. Rey Mysterio) 2010 Kevin Steen vs. El Generico Anderson Silva vs. Chael Sonnen Georges St-Pierre vs. Josh Koscheck 2011 Kevin Steen vs. Ring of Honor Ultimate Fighting Championship vs. Spike TV Ultimate Fighting Championship vs. Spike TV 2012 Jon Jones vs. Rashad Evans Ronda Rousey vs Cris "Cyborg" Santos Anderson Silva vs. Chael Sonnen Anderson Silva vs. Chael Sonnen 2013 CM Punk vs. Paul Heyman Ronda Rousey vs. Miesha Tate Hiroshi Tanahashi vs. Kazuchika Okada& Georges St-Pierre vs. Nick Diaz Ronda Rousey vs. Miesha Tate 2014 Jon Jones vs. Daniel Cormier Jon Jones vs. Daniel Cormier Jon Jones vs. Daniel Cormier Daniel Bryan vs. Triple H 2015 José Aldo vs. Conor McGregor José Aldo vs. Conor McGregor José Aldo vs. Conor McGregor 2016 Conor McGregor vs. Nate Diaz (UFC)& Brock Lesnar vs. Goldberg (WWE) (h/m) The Miz vs. Daniel Bryan (WWE) Billy Corgan vs. Impact Ventures LLC (TNA) Conor McGregor vs. Nate Diaz (UFC)& Ricochet vs. Will Ospreay (Evolve/NJPW/PWG/OTT) Aj Styles vs. John Cena (WWE) Best Angle This award is given to the best individual moment or plot device (typically in professional wrestling, though noteworthy mixed martial arts events may also be nominated) in the past year. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Randy Orton creates The Legacy Santino Marella and the Honk-a-Meter CM Punk winning Money in the Bank and the fallout 2009 Chris Jericho and The Big Show teaming together Build to Chris Jericho vs. Rey Mysterio, WWE Intercontinental Championship vs. Mask match Randy Orton punts Vince McMahon 2010 Jerry Lawler vs. The Miz development The debut of Nexus The debut of Nexus 2011 CM Punk leaves WWE with the WWE Championship CM Punk leaves WWE with the WWE Championship CM Punk leaves WWE with the WWE Championship 2012 Ryback squash matches CM Punk holding WWE Title all year Austin Aries trades in X Title and wins TNA Title at Destination X Bound for Glory Series 2013 Mark Henry fake retiremen Rhodes Family Firing / Return to WWE Mark Henry fake retirement Rhodes Family Firing / Return to WWE 2014 The Shield breakup Sami Zayn’s rode to the NXT title Jon Jones and Daniel Cormier hotel lobby brawl The Shield breakup 2015 Brock Lesnar and The Undertaker’s brawl on Raw John Cena U.S Title Open Challenge Brock Lesnar and The Undertaker’s brawl on Raw 2016 Goldberg beats Brock Lesnar in under 2 min's (Survivor Series) Bullet Club shaves Jay Lethal head (ROH/NJPW) Kenny Omega & Bullet Club kick out AJ Styles (NJPW)(h/m) Miz & Daniel Bryan (Talking Smack) Goldberg beats Brock Lesnar in under 2 min's (Survivor Series) Best Pay-Per-View Originally there was a single award covering both wrestling and mixed martial arts pay-per-view events. In 2010, this category was split to two separate awards for wrestling events and mixed martial arts events. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 WrestleMania XXIV UFC 91 WWE No Mercy 2009 UFC 100 UFC 100 UFC 100 Best Wrestling Pay-Per-View In 2014 the wrestling event category expanded to include Network Events and was no longer restricted to just pay-per-view events. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2010 ROH Death Before Dishonor VIII WWE Money in the Bank ROH Death Before Dishonor VIII 2011 WWE Money in the Bank WWE Money in the Bank WWE Money in the Bank 2012 ROH Glory By Honor XI WWE TLC WWE Extreme Rules WrestleMania 28 2013 G-1 Climax Day 4 in Osaka WWE Payback G-1 Climax Day 4 in Osaka WWE SummerSlam 2014 ROH Global Wars NXT TakeOver: R Evolution G-1 Climax Day 7 in Tokyo WrestleMania 30 2015 Wrestle Kingdom 9 NXT TakeOver: Brooklyn Wrestle Kingdom 9 2016 Final Battle (ROH) Takeover: Toronto King Of Pro Wrestling (NJPW) Takeover: Toronto Best Mixed Martial Arts Fight Card In 2011 the mixed martial arts event category expanded to include Fight Cards and was no longer restricted to just pay-per-view events. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2010 WEC 48 UFC 116 UFC 116 2011 UFC 139 UFC 139 UFC 139 2012 UFC 154 UFC 146 UFC 146 UFC 148 2013 UFC 166 UFC Fight Night 26 UFC 166 UFC 166 2014 UFC 178 UFC 178 UFC Fight Night 55 UFC 171 2015 UFC 189 UFC 194 UFC 189 2016 UFC 206 UFC 205 UFC 196 UFC 205 Best Promotion This award is given to the best wrestling or mixed martial arts organization in the past year. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship 2009 Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship 2010 World Extreme Cagefighting Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship 2011 Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship 2012 Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship 2013 New Japan Pro-Wrestling Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship 2014 New Japan Pro-Wrestling& NXT NXT New Japan Pro-Wrestling NXT 2015 Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship 2016 Ultimate Fighting Championship (h/m) PWG Ultimate Fighting Championship Ultimate Fighting Championship (h/m) NJPW WWE Best Television Show Jason Agnew did not make a pick for 2011, as he did not watch The Ultimate Fighter: Team Bisping vs. Team Miller, which he otherwise felt as the best TV show. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 The Ultimate Fighter: Team Nogueira vs. Team Mir The Ultimate Fighter: Team Nogueira vs. Team Mir The Ultimate Fighter: Team Nogueira vs. Team Mir 2009 The Ultimate Fighter: Heavyweights(h/m UFC Countdown) WWE Vintage Collection The Ultimate Fighter: Heavyweights 2010 Ring of Honor Wrestling(h/m The Ultimate Fighter: Team GSP vs. Team Koscheck) WWE Raw The Ultimate Fighter: Team GSP vs. Team Koscheck 2011 The Ultimate Fighter: Team Bisping vs. Team Miller —N/a The Ultimate Fighter: Team Bisping vs. Team Miller 2012 UFC on FOX 5 UFC on FOX Fight Factory FOX's Road to the Octagon& UFC Primetime 2013 NXT NXT Total Divas Total Divas 2014 NXT Lucha Underground NXT NXT 2015 Ring of Honor Wrestling Lucha Underground Lucha Underground 2016 Ring of Honor Wrestling Talking Smack WWE SmackDown NXT(h/m) Cruiserweight Classic Best Book This award is given to the best book relating to wrestling or mixed martial arts. Jason Agnew does not normally give an award due to his commitments for other shows precluding him from reading too many candidates. In 2016 no award was given for "Best Book". Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 "Adventures in Larry Land"by Larry Zbyszko —N/a "Total MMA"by Jonathan Snowden 2009 "Drawing Heat the Hard Way"by Larry Matysik(h/m "Queen of the Ring"by Jeff Leen)(h/m "The Midnight Express 25th Anniversary Scrapbook"by Jim Cornette) —N/a "The Midnight Express 25th Anniversary Scrapbook"by Jim Cornette 2010 "Minnesota's Golden Age of Wrestling"by George Schire& "The MMA Encyclopedia"by Jonathan Snowden and Kendall Shields —N/a "Countdown to Lockdown" by Mick Foley 2011 "The Last Outlaw"by Stan Hansen —N/a "Let's Get It On"by Big John McCarthy and Loretta Hunt 2012 "Heroes & Icons"by Greg Oliver and Steven Johnson —N/a "Shooters"by Jonathan Snowden —N/a 2013 "The Hardcore Truth"by Hardcore Holly& "Mad Dogs, Midgets and Screw Jobs"by Pat Laprade and Bertrand Hebert —N/a "Mad Dogs, Midgets and Screw Jobs"by Pat Laprade & Bertrand Hébert —N/a 2014 "The Best in the World…At What I Have No Idea"by Chris Jericho —N/a "The Best in the World…At What I Have No Idea"by Chris Jericho —N/a 2015 —N/a —N/a "Capitol Revolution: The Rise of the McMahon Wrestling Empire"by Tim Hornbaker (h/m "Lion's Pride: The Turbulent History of New Japan Pro Wrestling"by Chris Charlton) 2016 —N/a —N/a —N/a —N/a Best DVD / Original Programming This award is given to the best compilation or documentary on wrestling or mixed martial arts in the past year which have been released on DVD. Originally "Best DVD" until 2015 when this category was expanded to include non in-ring programing. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 "Viva la Raza: The Life and Times of Eddie Guerrero"(h/m "The Life and Times of Mr. Perfect") "The Life and Times of Mr. Perfect" Ric Flair shoot interview on Highspots 2009 "Jeff Hardy: My Life, My Rules" "The Wrestler" "Starrcade: The Essential Collection" 2010 "Chris Jericho: Breaking the Code" "Chris Jericho: Breaking the Code" "Chris Jericho: Breaking the Code" 2011 "WWE Greatest Rivalries: Bret Hart vs. Shawn Michaels"(h/m "Memphis Heat") "Memphis Heat"& "WWE Greatest Rivalries: Bret Hart vs. Shawn Michaels"(h/m "Randy Orton: The Evolution of a Predator") "Memphis Heat" 2012 "CM Punk: Best in the World" "CM Punk: Best in the World" "CM Punk: Best in the World" "CM Punk: Best in the World" 2013 "The Legends of Mid-South Wrestling" "WWE 50th Anniversary" "Bret Hart: The Dungeon Collection"(h/m "Jim Crockett Promotions: The Good Old Days") "Triple H: Thy Kingdom Come: 2014 "Ladies and Gentlemen, My Name is Paul Heyman" "Ladies and Gentlemen, My Name is Paul Heyman" "Ladies and Gentlemen, My Name is Paul Heyman" "Ladies and Gentlemen, My Name is Paul Heyman" 2015 "Table for 3" "Table for 3" "Table for 3" 2016 Talking Smack "The Edge and Christian Show That Totally Reeks of Awesomeness" Talking Smack Talking Smack"The Edge and Christian Show That Totally Reeks of Awesomeness" Best Fighter: Mixed Martial Artist Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Anderson Silva Georges St-Pierre(h/m Kenny Florian) Georges St-Pierre 2009 Anderson Silva Gegard Mousasi Georges St-Pierre 2010 Frankie Edgar Cain Velasquez Georges St-Pierre 2011 Jon Jones Jon Jones Jon Jones 2012 Benson Henderson Anderson Silva Ronda Rousey Benson Henderson 2013 Chris Weidman Vitor Belfort Chris Weidman(^ Cain Velasquez) Demetrious Johnson 2014 Robbie Lawler Robbie Lawler Rory MacDonald Ronda Rousey 2015 Conor McGregor Conor McGregor Conor McGregor 2016 Conor McGregor Michael Bisping Stipe Miočić Conor McGregor MMA Fight of the Year This award is given to the best single match on a mixed martial arts card in the past year. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Forrest Griffin vs. Quinton Jackson (UFC 86)(h/m Urijah Faber vs. Jens Pulver (WEC 38)) Cung Le vs. Frank Shamrock (Strikeforce: Shamrock vs. Le) Eddie Alvarez vs. Joachim Hansen (Dream 3) 2009 Ben Henderson vs. Donald Cerrone (WEC 43)& Diego Sanchez vs. Clay Guida (The Ultimate Fighter: United States vs. United Kingdom Finale) Scott Smith vs. Cung Le (Strikeforce: Evolution) Diego Sanchez vs. Clay Guida (The Ultimate Fighter: United States vs. United Kingdom Finale) 2010 Leonard Garcia vs. Chan Sung Jung (WEC 48)(h/m Ben Henderson vs. Anthony Pettis (WEC 53)) Anderson Silva vs. Chael Sonnen (UFC 117) Ben Henderson vs. Anthony Pettis (WEC 53) 2011 Dan Henderson vs. Maurício Rua (UFC 139) Dan Henderson vs. Maurício Rua (UFC 139) Diego Sanchez vs. Martin Kampmann (UFC Live: Sanchez vs. Kampmann) 2012 Benson Henderson vs. Frankie Edgar (UFC 144) Georges St-Pierre vs. Carlos Condit (UFC 154) Joe Lauzon vs. Jamie Varner (UFC on FOX 4) Benson Henderson vs. Frankie Edgar (UFC 144) 2013 Mark Hunt vs. Antonio Silva(UFC Fight Night 33)(h/m Gilbert Melendez vs Diego Sanchez (UFC 166)) Johny Hendricks vs. Carlos Condit (UFC 158) Gilbert Melendez vs. Diego Sanchez (UFC 166) Mark Hunt vs. Antonio Silva(UFC Fight Night 33 2014 Johny Hendricks vs. Robbie Lawler (UFC 171) Matt Brown vs. Erick Silva (UFC Fight Night: Brown vs. Silva) Johny Hendricks vs. Robbie Lawler (UFC 171) —N/a 2015 Robbie Lawler vs. Rory MacDonald (UFC 189) Robbie Lawler vs. Rory MacDonald (UFC 189) Robbie Lawler vs. Rory MacDonald (UFC 189) 2016 Cub Swanson vs. Doo Ho Choi (UFC 206)(h/m) Robbie Lawler vs. Carlos Condit (UFC 195) Conor McGregor vs. Nate Diaz (UFC 202) Cub Swanson vs. Doo Ho Choi (UFC 206)(h/m) Robbie Lawler vs. Carlos Condit (UFC 195) Conor McGregor vs. Nate Diaz (UFC 196)& Conor McGregor vs. Nate Diaz (UFC 202) Moment of the Year This award was only given in 2008 to the best individual wrestling or mixed martial arts moment in the past year. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2008 Retirement of Ric Flair(h/m Return of Randy Couture) Brock Lesnar defeats Randy Couture(h/m Retirement of Ric Flair) Brock Lesnar winning the UFC Heavyweight Championship& Floyd Mayweather Jr. appearing at WWE No Way Out Best Raw Guest Host This award was only given in 2009 due to the use of guest hosts for WWE Raw. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2009 Jesse Ventura Jesse Ventura Jesse Ventura Best LAW Interview This award is given to the best interview segment that aired on the LAW or an associated podcast in the past year. It was first awarded in 2010. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2010 Marty Jannetty Jim Mitchell Marty Jannetty(h/m Lex Luger)(h/m Paul Bearer) 2011 Stan Hansen Chris Jericho Barry Blaustein(h/m Teddy Hart) 2012 Vader Chris Jericho and Dave Meltzer roundtable Chris Jericho and Dave Meltzer roundtable Chris Jericho and Dave Meltzer roundtable 2013 Santino Marella (h/m Lance Russell)(h/m George "The Animal" Steel)(h/m Maria Kanellis) Mickie James Jim Ross Teddy Hart and Spencer Tapley 2014 The Killer Bees (h/m Stardust)(h/mPaul Heymen)(h/m Tugboat) EC3 - Ethan Carter III(h/m Ric Flair) Jeff Hardy(h/m EC3 - Ethan Carter III) Jeff Hardy(h/m Barbie Blank) 2015 Steve Corino& Bob Backlund& Jason Hervey Rockstar Spud Mick Foley & Chris Jerricho (Show dedicated to Roddy Piper) (h/m Rockstar Spud) (h/m Len Denton) (h/m Bret Hart) 2016 Stan Henson Chris Jericho Stan Henson& Jake "The Snake" Roberts& Chris Jericho& Goldberg Chris Jericho Biggest Story of the Year This award is given to the biggest news story in wrestling or mixed martial arts in the past year. It was first awarded in 2014. Year Dan “The Mouth” Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting Braden Herrington 2014 The launch of the WWE Network The launch of the WWE Network& Scott Coker replaces Bjorn Rebney at Bellator Scott Coker replaces Bjorn Rebney at Bellator CM Punk signs with UFC 2015 The fall of Ronda Rousey & the rise of Conor McGregor Ronda Rousey's shock loss to Holly Holm UFC brings in UDADA 2016 UFC selling for $4.2billionWWE expands to the United Kingdom UFC selling for $4.2billion UFC selling for $4.2billion AJ Styles comes to WWE |

| Worst of Awards |
|---|
| Worst Male Wrestler Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Vladimir Kozlov Vladimir Kozlov Braden Walker 2009 The Great Khali Hornswoggle The Great Khali 2010 David Otunga Rhino David Otunga 2011 Crimson Rob Van Dam Crimson 2012 Tensai The Great Khali The Miz The Great Khali 2013 Erick Rowan The Miz Wes Brisco The Miz 2014 Erick Rowan Kane Manabu Nakanishi 2015 Braun Strowman Mahabali Shera Mojo Rawley Worst Female Wrestler Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Rhaka KhanChristy Hemme (honorable mention)Michelle McCool (honorable mention) Christy HemmeMichelle McCool Rhaka Khan 2009 Lacey Von Erich Michelle McCool Jenna Morasca 2010 Kelly Kelly Alicia Fox Lacey Von Erich 2011 Kelly Kelly Alicia Fox Kelly Kelly 2012 Aksana Velvet Sky Taeler Hendrix Aksana 2013 Eva Marie Eva Marie Eva Marie Eva Marie 2014 Alicia Fox - Aksana 2015 Eva Marie Velvet Sky Eva Marie Worst Tag Team Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Curt Hawkins and Zack Ryder Abyss and Matt Morgan Curt Hawkins and Zack Ryder 2009 Mark Henry and Montel Vontavious Porter D-Generation X (Triple H and Shawn Michaels) D-Generation X (Triple H and Shawn Michaels) 2010 Eric Young and Orlando Jordan Eric Young and Orlando Jordan Gunner and Murphy 2011 Matt Morgan and Crimson David Otunga and Michael McGillicutty Mexican America (Hernandez and Anarquia)Triple H and CM Punk (honorable mention) 2012 Matt Morgan and Crimson Eric Young and ODB The Guardians of Truth Matt Morgan and Crimson 2013 Ryback and Curtis Axel The Ascension Garett Bischoff and Wes Brisco The Great Khali & Santino Marella 2014 The Ascension The Ascension Rolles Gracie Jr. and Daniel Gracie 2015 The Ascension The Meta Powers (Curtis Axel & Damien Sandow) The Ascension Worst on the Mic Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Vladimir Kozlov Mike Adamle Mike Adamle 2009 Tiffany TiffanyRhino (honorable mention) Tiffany 2010 Kane Rhino Dixie Carter 2011 D'Angelo Dinero John Laurinaitis Mr. Anderson 2012 Claire Lynch Mr. Anderson The Miz The Miz 2013 John Cena The Miz Mr. Anderson (tie) Curtis Axel The Great Khali 2014 Roman Reigns Roman Reigns Brie Bella 2015 The Ascension Roman Reigns Sheamus Worst Announcer Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Mike Adamle Mike AdamleScott Ferrall Mike Adamle 2009 Michael Cole Michael Cole Todd Grisham 2010 Taz Taz Matt Striker 2011 Taz Michael ColeJerry LawlerBooker T Booker T 2012 Taz Taz Taz Taz 2013 Taz Taz Taz Taz 2014 Mike TenayTaz Michael ColeJerry LawlerJohn Bradshaw Layfield Michael ColeJerry LawlerJohn Bradshaw Layfield 2015 John Bradshaw Layfield "The Pope" D'Angelo Dinero "The Pope" D'Angelo Dinero Worst Non-Wrestling Performer Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Mike Adamle Mike Adamle Mike Adamle 2009 Tiffany Tiffany Tiffany 2010 Dixie Carter Hornswoggle Bubba the Love Sponge 2011 Dixie Carter Aksana Michael Cole 2012 Claire Lynch Claire Lynch Claire Lynch Claire Lynch 2013 Hulk Hogan Booker TTeddy Long Dixie Carter Dixie Carter 2014 Dixie Carter Truth Martini Dixie Carter 2015 Summer Rae Dixie Carter Lana Worst Raw Guest Host This award was only awarded in 2009 due to the use of guest hosts on WWE Raw. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock 2009 ZZ TopDennis Miller(honorable mention)Verne Troyer (honorable mention)Ozzy Osbourne and Sharon Osbourne (honorable mention) Ozzy Osbourne and Sharon Osbourne Dennis Miller Most Underutilized Performer This award is given to the most underrated wrestler of the year, or the ones whose efforts largely went unrewarded. This award was not given in 2011 due to an omission in the list of awards for that year. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock 2008 Montel Vontavious Porter Matt Morgan Natalya 2009 Montel Vontavious Porter Jack Swagger The Motor City Machine GunsTyson Kidd (honorable mention) 2010 Montel Vontavious PorterJack Swagger (honorable mention) Jay Lethal Daniel Bryan They Really Dropped the Ball On... This award is given to the wrestling or mixed martial arts event that failed in its execution or led to missed opportunities. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 CM Punk after losing the World Heavyweight Championship Montel Vontavious Porter after losing the WWE United States Championship CM Punk after losing the World Heavyweight Championship 2009 Jack Swagger after being traded to Raw Gail Kim's tenure in WWEEnd of CM Punk's World Heavyweight Championship reign Kofi Kingston's sustained push 2010 Samoa Joe's overall characterThe Hart Dynasty following the return of Bret Hart The return of the Monday Night War between WWE Raw and TNA ImpactThe Hart Dynasty following the return of Bret HartHulk Hogan and Eric Bischoff attempting to overhaul TNA Bret Hart vs. Vince McMahon WrestleMania XXVII buildup and matchTeam WWE defeating Nexus at SummerSlam 2011 Sin Cara's introduction Return of CM PunkChristian's reign as World Heavyweight Champion (honorable mention)Alberto Del Rio's overall character (honorable mention) Return of Mick Foley 2012 Brock Lesnar Brock Lesnar James Storm Strikeforce 2013 Daniel Bryan Chris Masters Tyson Kidd Daniel Bryan 2014 WWE Network Cesaro Dean Ambrose 2015 Daniel Bryan at the Royal RumbleSting (honorable mention) WWE Woman's Division No Top Heel after Seth Rollins injury (#1 of Top Ten List) Worst Gimmick First awarded in 2008, after the last minute inclusion of the Best Gimmick award the previous week. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Fish Market Street Fight (Team 3D vs. Curry Man and Shark Boy, Destination X) Super Eric and the Prince Justice Brotherhood Ricky Ortiz 2009 Raw guest hosts The Abraham Washington Show The GovernorD-Generation X 2010 Orlando Jordan as the bisexual characterAnonymous General Manager of Raw Orlando Jordan as the bisexual character Anonymous General Manager of Raw 2011 Eric Young challenging TV stars as TNA Television Champion Michael Cole as heel lead announcerSting's Joker-inspired character Bound for Glory Series Tournament 2012 Aces & Eights Jeff Hardy internal monologues TNA Gut Check 3 Hour Raw Natalya farting 2013 Bad News Barrett Aces & Eights "The Lone Wolf" AJ Styles Antonio Cesaro yodeling 2014 Samuel Shaw $9.99 marketing idea for WWE Network $9.99 marketing idea for WWE Network 2015 MexAmerica (Alberto Del Rio & Zeb Coulter)The Revolution(honorable mention) The Revolution The Revolution Worst Match of the Year In 2009, this category was named in honour of the Jenna Morasca vs. Sharmell match that was unanimously named the worst that year. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Frank Trigg vs. A.J. Styles (TNA No Surrender (2008)) Michelle McCool vs. Maryse (WWE SmackDown)John Cena vs. John Bradshaw Layfield Parking Lot Brawl (The Great American Bash) Frank Trigg vs. A.J. Styles (TNA No Surrender) 2009 Jenna Morasca vs. Sharmell (TNA Victory Road) Jenna Morasca vs. Sharmell (TNA Victory Road) Jenna Morasca vs. Sharmell (TNA Victory Road) 2010 Bret Hart vs. Vince McMahon (WrestleMania XXVII)Kaitlyn vs. Maxine (NXT) (honorable mention) Bret Hart vs. Vince McMahon (WrestleMania XXVII) Kaitlyn vs. Maxine (NXT) 2011 John Cena vs. The Miz (WWE Over the Limit) Matt Morgan vs. Crimson (TNA Turning Point) Sting vs. Jeff Hardy (TNA Victory Road)Alicia Fox vs. Beth Phoenix (WWE SmackDown) 2012 John Cena vs. John Laurinaitis (WWE Over the Limit) John Cena vs. Michael Cole (Raw 6/4/12) Kris Lewie vs. Gunner (TNA Impact 9/23/12) Kris Lewie vs. Gunner (TNA Impact 9/23/12) 2013 Randy Orton vs. Daniel Bryan (WWE Battleground) Ryan Howe vs. Adam Ohriner (TNA Gut Check) Randy Orton vs. Big Show (WWE Survivor Series) The Great Khali & Natalya vs. Big E. Langston & AJ Lee (Raw 9/12/13) 2014 Big Show vs. Erick Rowan Stairs Match (WWE TLC) Layla vs. Summer Rae (WWE Money in the Bank) Kazushi Sakuraba & Yuji Nagata vs. Rolles Gracie Jr. & Daniel Gracie (Wrestle Kingdom 8) 2015 Los Villanos vs. Los Psycho Circus (Triplemanía XXIII) Los Villanos vs. Los Psycho Circus (Triplemanía XXIII) Los Villanos vs. Los Psycho Circus (Triplemanía XXIII) Worst Feud of the Year Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Eric Young vs. Robert Roode (TNA Beer Drinking Championship) Black Machismo vs. Sonjay Dutt Black Machismo vs. Sonjay Dutt 2009 D-Generation X vs. Hornswoggle Chavo Guerrero Jr. vs. Hornswoggle Randy Orton vs. Shane McMahonChavo Guerrero Jr. vs. Hornswoggle (honorable mention) 2010 Edge vs. Kane Edge vs. Kane Edge vs. Kane 2011 Michael Cole vs. Jerry Lawler Michael Cole vs. Jerry Lawler Michael Cole vs. Jim RossSamoa Joe vs. D'Angelo Dinero (honorable mention)Angelina Love vs. Winter (honorable mention) 2012 John Cena vs. John Laurinaitis Aces & Eights vs. TNA Aces & Eights vs. TNA Aces & Eights vs. TNA 2013 TNA vs. Aces & Eights Quinton Jackson vs. Tito Ortiz Big Show vs. Triple H The Miz vs. Kofi Kingston 2014 Samuel Shaw vs. Mr. Anderson Nikki Bella vs. Brie Bella Nikki Bella vs. Brie Bella 2015 Mickie James vs. James Storm Team PCB vs. Team B.A.D. vs. Team Bella (honorable mention) Dolph Ziggler & Lana vs.Rusev & Summer Rae (honorable mention) Dolph Ziggler vs. Rusev Dolph Ziggler vs. Rusev Worst Angle Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Team 3D forced to make weight against X-Division opponents Conclusion of Vince McMahon million-dollar giveaway contest Exploitation of Jill Jarrett (Jeff Jarrett's deceased wife) to get heat on Kurt Angle 2009 Hornswoggle's antics in general Hornswoggle joining D-Generation X Shawn Michaels resurfaces as a fast-order cook 2010 Formation of EV 2.0 Formation of EV 2.0 Formation of Immortal 2011 Jersey Shore cast making cameo appearances on Impact Wrestling Sin Cara vs. Sin Cara Triple H as the COO 2012 Fake Heart Attack with CM Punk & Paul Heyman on Raw Claire Lynch Claire Lynch Claire Lynch 2013 Big Show losing all his money AJ Styles leaving TNA Big Show & Triple H lawsuit settlement Xavier Woods stealing the music of Brodus Clay 2014 James Storm as The Revolution leader Samuel Shaw stalking Christy Hemme Samuel Shaw stalking Christy Hemme 2015 Stephanie McMahon introduces the "Woman's Revolution" James Storm pushes Mickie James on train tracks Paige's Reid Flair promoJames Storm pushes Mickie James on train tracks (honorable mention) Worst Pay-Per-View Up until 2009, there was a single award covering both wrestling and mixed martial arts pay-per-view events. In 2009, this category was split to two separate awards for wrestling events and mixed martial arts events, and in 2011 the mixed martial arts event category was no longer restricted to pay-per-view events, instead focusing on supercards in general. Worst Wrestling Pay-Per-View Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Final Resolution (both January and December) Final Resolution (December) —N/a 2009 Destination X WWE Breaking Point TNA Victory Road 2010 TNA Hardcore Justice TNA Hardcore Justice TNA Hardcore Justice 2011 TNA Victory Road TNA Victory Road TNA Victory Road 2012 TNA Lockdown TNA Lockdown TNA Lockdown —N/a 2013 WWE Battleground WWE Battleground WWE Battleground —N/a 2014 WWE TLC - TNA Bound for Glory 2015 Triplemanía XXIII Triplemanía XXIII Triplemanía XXIII Worst Mixed Martial Arts Supercard Dan Lovranski's pick for 2010 was not revealed on the Worst of 2010; it was claimed as the 2010 pick on the Worst of 2011 show. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 —N/a —N/a YAMMA Pit Fighting 2009 —N/a —N/a —N/a 2010 UFC 112 Impact FC 2 UFC 112 2011 UFC 130 UFC 130UFC 119 Strikeforce: Melendez vs. Masvidal 2012 UFC 149 UFC 149 UFC 149 UFC 149 2013 UFC 161 UFC 161 UFC 161 UFC 161 2014 UFC 177 UFC 177 UFC 174 2015 —N/a UFC 186 UFC 186 Worst Promotion Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling 2009 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling 2010 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling 2011 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Strikeforce Total Nonstop Action Wrestling 2012 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Strikeforce Strikeforce Strikeforce 2013 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Bellator Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling 2014 UFC Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling 2015 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Total Nonstop Action Wrestling Worst TV Show Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Asistencia Asesoría y Administración TNA Impact TNA Impact 2009 TNA Impact WWE Superstars TNA Impact 2010 NXT (all seasons) NXT season 3 TNA Impact 2011 Impact Wrestling NXT Redemption Impact Wrestling 2012 WWE Raw WWE Smackdown The Ultimate Fighter Live WWE Raw 2013 WWE Smackdown Ring of Honor WWE Raw WWE Raw 2014 TNA Top 20 Moments on Spike TV WWE Smackdown WWE Raw 2015 Impact Wrestling Impact Wrestling Impact Wrestling Worst Book Like its Best of counterpart, Jason Agnew does not usually give a pick due to his commitments with other shows precluding him from reading too many wrestling or mixed martial arts books; though he formally did not have a pick for 2010, he did make a joke pick for 2010, however. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Ring of Hell by Matthew Randozzo V —N/a Made in America by Matt Hughes 2009 My Life Outside the Ring by Hulk Hogan —N/a My Life Outside the Ring by Hulk Hogan 2010 Cross Rhodes by Dustin Rhodes "The book that Dixie Carter gave to Eric Bischoff and Hulk Hogan" How WCW Killed Vince Russo by Vince Russo 2011 Death Clutch by Brock Lesnar and Paul Heyman —N/a Wrestling the Hulk: My Life on the Ropes by Linda Hogan 2012 "The King of New Orleans' by Greg Klein —N/a "Physical Chess" by Billy Robinson —N/a 2013 "50 Greatest Professional Wrestlers" by Larry Matysik —N/a "Hart Strings" by Julie Hart —N/a 2014 —N/a —N/a —N/a 2015 —N/a —N/a —N/a Worst DVD/Original Programming Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 The Definitive Ric Flair Collection The Twisted, Disturbed Life of Kane Kurt Angle Champion 2009 Randy Savage Macho Madness The Best of Smackdown Batista I Walk Alone 2010 Bobby Heenan The Top 50 WWE Superstars of All Time Knucklehead 2011 WWE Greatest Superstars of the 21st Century WWE Greatest Superstars of the 21st Century The Big Show A Giant's World 2012 "WWE One in a Lifetime: The Rock vs. John Cena Brock Lesnar: Here Comes The Pain (re-issue) Vince Russo YouShoot Live Queen of the Ring starring Chyna 2013 Triple H: Thy Kingdom Come Goldberg: The Ultimate Collection Triple H: Thy Kingdom Come —N/a 2014 —N/a —N/a —N/a 2015 WWE Swerved Total Divas WWE Monday Night War Worst Fighter Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Kimbo Slice Kimbo Slice Ken Shamrock 2009 Kimbo Slice Kimbo Slice Houston Alexander 2010 Kimbo Slice Gilbert Yvel James Toney 2011 Mirko Filipović Jake Shields Valentijn Overeem 2012 Quinton Jackson Jason "Mayhem" Miller Bob Sapp Jason "Mayhem" Miller 2013 Chris Leben Uriah Hall Alistair Overeem Uriah Hall 2014 Nate Diaz Chael Sonnen Cris "Cyborg" Santos 2015 José Aldo José Aldo Anderson Silva Worst Fight of the Year Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 Kimbo Slice vs. James Thompson (EliteXC: Primetime) Nate Quarry vs. Kalib Starnes (UFC 83) Kimbo Slice vs. Seth Petruzelli (EliteXC: Heat)Nate Quarry vs. Kalib Starnes (UFC 83) (honorable mention) 2009 Kimbo Slice vs. Houston Alexander (The Ultimate Fighter: Heavyweights Finale) Anderson Silva vs. Thales Leites (UFC 97) Anderson Silva vs. Thales Leites (UFC 97) 2010 Anderson Silva vs. Demian Maia (UFC 112) Frank Mir vs. Mirko Filipović (UFC 119) Randy Couture vs. James Toney (UFC 118) 2011 Frank Mir vs. Roy Nelson (UFC 130) Alistair Overeem vs. Fabrício Werdum (Strikeforce: Overeem vs. Werdum) Bobby Lashley vs. John Ott (Titan Fighting Championships 17) 2012 Gray Maynard vs. Clay Guida (UFC on FX 4) Gray Maynard vs. Clay Guida (UFC on FX 4) Cheick Kongo vs. Shawn Jordan (UFC 149) Cheick Kongo vs. Shawn Jordan (UFC 149) 2013 Uriah Hall vs. Chris Leben (UFC 168) Rory MacDonald vs. Jake Ellenberger (UFC on FOX 8) Soa Palelei vs. Nikita Krylov (UFC 164) Antônio Rogério Nogueira vs. Rashad Evans (UFC 156) 2014 Andrei Arlovski vs. Brendan Schaub (UFC 174) - Tito Ortiz vs. Stephan Bonnar (Bellator 131) 2015 Gabriel Gonzaga vs. Konstanin Erokhin (The Ultimate Fighter 22) —N/a Patrick Walsh vs. Dan Kelly (UFC Fight Night 60) WTF Moment of the Year This award is given to the moment in the past year that makes a viewer ashamed of being a wrestling or mixed martial arts fan, or the moment that evoked the strongest namesake reaction. Year Dan Lovranski Jason Agnew John Pollock Wai Ting 2008 General booking of Total Nonstop Action WrestlingKen Shamrock, Kimbo Slice, and Seth Petruzelli debacle leading to collapse of EliteXC (honourable mention) Ken Shamrock, Kimbo Slice, and Seth Petruzelli debacle leading to collapse of EliteXC Ken Shamrock, Kimbo Slice, and Seth Petruzelli debacle leading to collapse of EliteXC 2009 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling allying with Hulk Hogan and Eric BischoffShane McMahon's departure from World Wrestling Entertainment (honourable mention)Anticipation of Bret Hart's return (honourable mention) Fallout of Donald Trump "buying" WWE Raw Cute Kip being a replacement for Kevin Nash at TNA Genesis 2010 The Big Show removing CM Punk's mask Judging inconsistencies in UFCHulk Hogan posting a video of himself defecating on Twitter Homicide's unprotected chairshot to Rob Terry 2011 Robert Roode loses at TNA Bound for Glory Crowd reaction to Hulk Hogan vs. Sting at TNA Bound for Glory CM Punk teams up with Triple H 2012 John Cena beats Brock Lesnar at Extreme Rules Hulk Hogan Sex Tape John Cena beats Brock Lesnar at Extreme Rules UFC injuries and cancellations 2013 Seattle crowd chanting Daniel Bryan during unification ceremony on Raw Dixie Carter grabs Hulk Hogan's leg and begs him to stay All iPPV screw ups Anderson Silva breaks leg 2014 Dean Ambrose hologram/exploding TV finishes TNA relationship with Vince Russo all year long TNA relationship with Vince Russo all year long 2015 Daniel Bryan losing the Royal RumbleConor McGregor beating José Aldo in 13 seconds Hulk Hogan racist rant & handling of itAnderson Silva's mysterious blue sexual enhancement liquid (honorable mention) Hulk Hogan racist rant & handling of itThe entire booking of the 2015 Royal Rumble Match (honorable mention) |

Awards are given over the course of two episodes: the Best of episode, typically the last episode of the year under consideration or the first episode of the following year, and the Worst of episode, awarded the first week without a pay-per-view event after the Best of episode. Each host of the show nominates a pick in each category, and may also name "ties" (&) and "honourable mentions" (h/m) in each category.
Both Wai Ting and Braden Herrington have officially joined the other three hosts to hand out their Best of Awards & Worst of Awards. Ting in both 2012 and 2013, & Herrington in both 2014 and 2016.

### Spinoff Series Awards

| whtsNXT: Best & Worst of Awards |
|---|
| Best Wrestler: Male Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Kevin Owens Finn Bálor 2016 Samoa Joe Shinsuke Nakamura Samoa Joe Best Wrestler: Female Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Bayley Sasha Banks 2016 Auska Auska Auska Best Tag Team Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Enzo & Cass Jason Jordan & Chad Gable 2016 The Revival The Revival The Revival Best Match of the Year Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Sasha Banks vs. Bayley(Takeover: Brooklyn) Sasha Banks vs. Bayley(Takeover: Brooklyn) 2016 DIY vs. The Revival(Takeover: Toronto) Shinsuke Nakamura vs. Sami Zayn(Takeover: Dallas) DIY vs. The Revival(Takeover: Toronto) Best on the Mic Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Enzo Corey Graves 2016 The Revival The Revival The Revival Best Takeover Event Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Takeover: Brooklyn Takeover: Brooklyn 2016 Takeover: Toronto Takeover: Toronto Takeover: Dallas Should debut on the Raw-After-Mania This award was only awarded in 2015. Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Finn Bálor Finn Bálor Best Transition to Main Roster This award is given to the call-up from NXT who transitions Best to the Main Roster (Raw/SmackDown). It was first awarded in 2016. Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2016 Alexa Bliss Alexa Bliss Corey Graves Worst Wrestler: Male Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Mojo Rawley Baron Corbin 2016 Andrade "Cien" Almas "The Drifter" Elias Samson(h/m Patrick Clark) Angelo Dawkins Worst Wrestler: Female Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Nia Jax Carmella 2016 Liv Morgan Liv Morgan Nia Jax Worst Tag Team Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Hype Bros The Vaudevillains 2016 The Authors of Pain The Authors of Pain Blake & Murphy Worst Match of the Year 'In 2015 Braden awarded every match involving Baron Corbon "Worst Match of the Year", felling every match was equally terrible. Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Baron Corbin vs. Bull Dempsey(Takeover: Rival) Baron Corbon vs. "Anyone"(NXT) 2016 Aliyah vs. Liv Morgan(NXT) Aliyah vs. Liv Morgan(NXT) Buddy Murphy vs. Wesley Blake(NXT) Worst on the Mic Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Mojo Rawley(h/m Apollo Crews) Baron Corbin 2016 Nia Jax(h/m Carmella) Paul Ellering Nia Jax Worst Takeover Event In 2015 both Jason & Braden felt there was no "Worst Takeover Event" of 2015. Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 —N/a —N/a 2016 Takeover: The End Takeover: The End Takeover: Brooklyn Should be released This award was only awarded in 2015. Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2015 Mojo Rawley Baron Corbin& Bull Dempsey Worst Transition to Main Roster This award is given to the call-up from NXT who transitions Worst to the Main Roster (Raw/SmackDown). It was first awarded in 2016. Year Jason Agnew Braden Herrington "Bartender" Dave 2016 Apollo Crews The Vaudevillains The Vaudevillains |

Additional Best & Worst of picks may also be given by other members of the LAW's associated podcasts, picks from these restricted in scope to the wrestling, but are otherwise identical in scope. As of January 2017 other LAW associated hosts include; Wai Ting; Braden Herrington; Brain Mann; Nate Milton; Chris Charlton; WH Park; "Bartender" Dave; Martin Bushby; & Oli Court.
