# UFC 329

UFC 329: McGregor vs. Holloway 2 was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on July 11, 2026, at the T-Mobile Arena in Paradise, Nevada, part of the Las Vegas Valley, United States.

## Background

The event was held during the UFC's annual International Fight Week, with the 2026 UFC Hall of Fame induction ceremony taking place on July 9, 2026.
A welterweight bout between former UFC Featherweight and Lightweight Champion Conor McGregor and fellow former featherweight champion Max Holloway headlined the event. This was McGregor's first appearance since he broke his leg at UFC 264 in July 2021, and it also marked Holloway's debut in the welterweight division. They previously fought in August 2013 at UFC Fight Night: Shogun vs. Sonnen in a featherweight bout early in their UFC careers, where McGregor won via unanimous decision. Maurício Ruffy served as backup and potential replacement for this fight.
A welterweight bout between former UFC Welterweight Champion Leon Edwards and Daniel Rodriguez was reportedly linked to the event. However, Rodriguez was instead scheduled to face another opponent at another date.
A bantamweight bout between Farid Basharat and Ethyn Ewing was scheduled for the event. The bout was originally booked for UFC Fight Night: Kape vs. Horiguchi three weeks prior, but was moved to this event for undisclosed reasons. However, Ewing had to withdraw for undisclosed reasons and was replaced by promotional newcomer John Garza.
A flyweight bout between Cody Durden and Ode' Osbourne was scheduled for the event. However, Osbourne had to withdraw due to an undisclosed injury and was replaced by Alessandro Costa.

## Results

| Main card (Paramount+ / CBS) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Welterweight | Max Holloway | def. | Conor McGregor | TKO (knee injury) | 1 | 1:09 |  |
| Lightweight | Paddy Pimblett | def. | Benoît Saint Denis | Technical Submission (Peruvian necktie) | 1 | 0:52 |  |
| Bantamweight | Mario Bautista | def. | Cory Sandhagen | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Brandon Royval | def. | Lone'er Kavanagh | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 3 | 3:40 |  |
| Lightweight | King Green | def. | Terrance McKinney | TKO (punches) | 1 | 4:59 |  |
| Preliminary card (Paramount+ / CBS) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Robert Whittaker | def. | Nikita Krylov | TKO (jaw injury) | 3 | 1:01 |  |
| Heavyweight | Gable Steveson | def. | Elisha Ellison | KO (knees and punches) | 1 | 2:31 |  |
| Bantamweight | Adrian Yañez | def. | Cody Garbrandt | TKO (punches) | 1 | 2:47 |  |
| Featherweight | Luke Riley | def. | Kai Kamaka III | TKO (knees and punches) | 1 | 3:03 |  |
| Early preliminary card (Paramount+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Wang Cong | def. | Tracy Cortez | Decision (unanimous) (29–27, 29–27, 29–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Damian Pinas | def. | César Almeida | KO (punch) | 1 | 4:44 |  |
| Bantamweight | Farid Basharat | def. | John Garza | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Ryan Gandra | def. | Zachary Reese | TKO (punches) | 1 | 1:15 |  |
| Flyweight | Alessandro Costa | def. | Cody Durden | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 2:19 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received bonuses: $100,000. The other finishes received $25,000 additional bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Brandon Royval vs. Lone'er Kavanagh
Performance of the Night: Paddy Pimblett and King Green

## Records set

The event matched the UFC record for the most finishes in a single event, tying UFC Fight Night: Rockhold vs. Bisping, UFC 224, UFC 281 and UFC Fight Night: Imavov vs. Borralho with a total of 11 finishes.
The event generated $26,430,566 in ticket receipts, which broke the record for the biggest gate in UFC history surpassing UFC 306 in September 2024 (which previously held the record with a gate of $21,829,245).
