# UFC 312

UFC 312: du Plessis vs. Strickland 2 was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on February 9, 2025, at the Qudos Bank Arena in Sydney, Australia.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's seventh visit to Sydney and first since UFC 293 in September 2023.
A UFC Middleweight Championship rematch between current champion Dricus du Plessis (also former KSW Welterweight Champion) and former champion Sean Strickland headlined the event. The pairing previously met one year prior at UFC 297 in which du Plessis captured the title by split decision.
A UFC Women's Strawweight Championship bout between current two-time champion Zhang Weili and The Ultimate Fighter: Team Joanna vs. Team Cláudia strawweight winner Tatiana Suarez served as the co-main event.
A light heavyweight bout between Jimmy Crute and Marcin Prachnio was scheduled for this event. However, Prachnio withdrew from the fight for unknown reasons and was replaced by former LFA Light Heavyweight Champion Rodolfo Bellato.
Road to UFC Season 2 flyweight winner Rei Tsuruya and Stewart Nicoll were scheduled to meet in a flyweight bout. However, Nicoll was forced to withdraw due to an injury and the bout was cancelled.
A bantamweight bout between promotional newcomer Aleksandre Topuria and Cody Haddon was scheduled for this event. However, Haddon withdrew from the fight due to a foot injury and was replaced by fellow newcomer Colby Thicknesse.
A flyweight bout between Road to UFC Season 1 flyweight winner Park Hyun-sung and Nyamjargal Tumendemberel was scheduled for the event. However, the bout was canceled due to a weight management issue with Nyamjargal.
During the event's broadcast, it was announced that the interim UFC Middleweight Championship bout that took place in April 2019 at UFC 236 between Israel Adesanya (who would go on to become a two-time middleweight champion) and The Ultimate Fighter: Team Jones vs. Team Sonnen middleweight winner Kelvin Gastelum would be the next "fight wing" UFC Hall of Fame inductee during International Fight Week festivities in Las Vegas this summer. Adesanya won the interim title via unanimous decision after a back-and-forth contest.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Middleweight | Dricus du Plessis (c) | def. | Sean Strickland | Decision (unanimous) (50–45, 50–45, 49–46) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Zhang Weili (c) | def. | Tatiana Suarez | Decision (unanimous) (49–46, 49–46, 49–45) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Heavyweight | Tallison Teixeira | def. | Justin Tafa | TKO (knee to the body and elbows) | 1 | 0:35 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Jimmy Crute | vs. | Rodolfo Bellato | Draw (majority) (29–27, 28–28, 28–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Jake Matthews | def. | Francisco Prado | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN2 / Disney+ / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Featherweight | Gabriel Santos | def. | Jack Jenkins | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 3 | 2:06 |  |
| Lightweight | Tom Nolan | def. | Viacheslav Borshchev | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Wang Cong | def. | Bruna Brasil | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Aleksandre Topuria | def. | Colby Thicknesse | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early Preliminary card (Disney+ / ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Rong Zhu | def. | Kody Steele | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Jonathan Micallef | def. | Kevin Jousset | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Quillan Salkilld | def. | Anshul Jubli | TKO (punch) | 1 | 0:19 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Rong Zhu vs. Kody Steele
Performance of the Night: Tallison Teixeira and Quillan Salkilld
