# UFC 307

UFC 307: Pereira vs. Rountree Jr. was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on October 5, 2024, at the Delta Center in Salt Lake City, Utah, United States.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's fourth visit to Salt Lake City and first since UFC 291 in July 2023.
A UFC Light Heavyweight Championship bout between current champion (also former UFC Middleweight Champion and former Glory Middleweight and Light Heavyweight Champion) Alex Pereira and Khalil Rountree Jr. headlined the event.
A UFC Women's Bantamweight Championship bout between current champion Raquel Pennington and former champion (also The Ultimate Fighter: Team Rousey vs. Team Tate bantamweight winner) Julianna Peña served as the co-main event.
A middleweight bout between Kevin Holland and Chris Curtis was scheduled for this event. However, Curtis withdrew from the fight due to a foot fracture and was replaced by Roman Dolidze.
A light heavyweight bout between former interim UFC Light Heavyweight Championship challenger Ovince Saint Preux and former LFA Light Heavyweight Champion Ryan Spann was initially scheduled for UFC Fight Night: Burns vs. Brady. However, on the week of the event, Saint Preux withdrew from the fight due to an illness, so the bout was moved to this event as a result.
A lightweight bout between Nate Landwehr and former LFA Lightweight Champion Austin Hubbard was reportedly scheduled for this event. However, Landwehr withdrew from the bout for unknown reasons and was replaced by Alexander Hernandez on short notice.
A featherweight bout between former UFC Bantamweight Champion Aljamain Sterling and Movsar Evloev was scheduled for this event. However, Sterling withdrew from the fight due to an injury sustained in sparring and the bout was scrapped. The pairing was eventually rescheduled for UFC 310.
Mauricio Ruffy was expected to participate in a lightweight bout at the event, but the promotion wasn't able to find an opponent and he was pulled from the card.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Light Heavyweight | Alex Pereira (c) | def. | Khalil Rountree Jr. | TKO (punches) | 4 | 4:32 |  |
| Women's Bantamweight | Julianna Peña | def. | Raquel Pennington (c) | Decision (split) (48–47, 47–48, 48–47) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Mario Bautista | def. | José Aldo | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Roman Dolidze | def. | Kevin Holland | TKO (corner stoppage) | 1 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Bantamweight | Kayla Harrison | def. | Ketlen Vieira | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPNews / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Joaquin Buckley | def. | Stephen Thompson | KO (punch) | 3 | 2:17 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Iasmin Lucindo | def. | Marina Rodriguez | Decision (split) (29–28, 28–29, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Alexander Hernandez | def. | Austin Hubbard | Decision (split) (27–30, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | César Almeida | def. | Ihor Potieria | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Ryan Spann | def. | Ovince Saint Preux | Submission (guillotine choke) | 1 | 1:35 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Tecia Pennington | def. | Carla Esparza | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Court McGee | def. | Tim Means | Submission (neck crank) | 1 | 3:19 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Alex Pereira vs. Khalil Rountree Jr.
Performance of the Night: Joaquin Buckley and Ryan Spann
