# UFC 244

UFC 244: Masvidal vs. Diaz was a mixed martial arts pay-per-view event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on November 2, 2019, at Madison Square Garden in New York City, New York, United States. It was the UFC's 500th live event.

## Background

### Card changes and main event jeopardy

A welterweight bout between Jorge Masvidal and former UFC Lightweight Championship challenger and The Ultimate Fighter 5 lightweight winner Nate Diaz headlined the event. After his UFC 241 win against former lightweight champion Anthony Pettis, Diaz proclaimed himself the "baddest motherfucker in the game" and issued a challenge to Masvidal. When the fight was scheduled, Dana White announced that a celebratory "baddest motherfucker" belt, embossed "BMF," would be awarded to the winner. However, on October 24, Diaz tweeted a statement saying he would not be competing due to an adverse drug test finding, which put the bout in jeopardy. On October 26, the UFC announced that Diaz had been cleared to compete, as his positive test had traces of LGD-4033, or Ligandrol, a selective androgen receptor modulator which was known to be linked to a tainted batch of organic, vegan multivitamins.
Krzysztof Jotko was scheduled to face Edmen Shahbazyan at the event. However, Jotko was removed from the card in early October for undisclosed reasons and replaced by Brad Tavares.

### Weigh-ins

At the weigh-ins, former Invicta FC Flyweight Champion Jennifer Maia weighed in at 127.2 pounds, 1.2 pounds over the flyweight non-title fight limit of 126 pounds. The bout proceeded at a catchweight and Maia was fined 25% of her purse, which went to her opponent Katlyn Chookagian.
Prior to the ceremonial weigh-ins, the New York State Athletic Commission (NYSAC) issued a rare statement in which it was announced that they would be pursuing disciplinary action against The Ultimate Fighter: Team Jones vs. Team Sonnen middleweight winner and former interim title challenger Kelvin Gastelum. In the statement, the Athletic Commission stated that following a review of Gastelum's weigh-in video they "determined that Mr. Gastelum made contact with another person while on the scale, a violation of the weigh in policy. In light of this violation, the Commission will pursue disciplinary action. At this time, the official weight determination will not be disturbed, and Mr. Gastelum will not be disqualified from competing in UFC 244."

### Fines

On November 8, it was announced that Corey Anderson had been fined $10,000 by the NYSAC for "unsportsmanlike and disorderly conduct" for taunting and screaming at Johnny Walker and shoving the referee away during his post-fight celebration. Kelvin Gastelum was also fined $1,000 for making physical contact with his coach Rafael Cordeiro while on the scale at the weigh-ins.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Welterweight | Jorge Masvidal | def. | Nate Diaz | TKO (doctor stoppage) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Darren Till | def. | Kelvin Gastelum | Decision (split) (27–30, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Stephen Thompson | def. | Vicente Luque | Decision (unanimous) (30–26, 30–26, 29–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Heavyweight | Derrick Lewis | def. | Blagoy Ivanov | Decision (split) (30–27, 28–29, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Kevin Lee | def. | Gregor Gillespie | KO (head kick) | 1 | 2:47 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN2) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Corey Anderson | def. | Johnny Walker | TKO (punches) | 1 | 2:07 |  |
| Featherweight | Shane Burgos | def. | Makwan Amirkhani | TKO (punches) | 3 | 4:32 |  |
| Middleweight | Edmen Shahbazyan | def. | Brad Tavares | KO (head kick) | 1 | 2:27 |  |
| Heavyweight | Jairzinho Rozenstruik | def. | Andrei Arlovski | KO (punch) | 1 | 0:29 |  |
| Early Preliminary card (UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Catchweight (127.2 lb) | Katlyn Chookagian | def. | Jennifer Maia | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Lyman Good | def. | Chance Rencountre | TKO (punches) | 3 | 2:03 |  |
| Featherweight | Hakeem Dawodu | def. | Julio Arce | Decision (split) (29–28, 28–29, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque
Performance of the Night: Kevin Lee and Corey Anderson
