# UFC 319

UFC 319: du Plessis vs. Chimaev was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on August 16, 2025, at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois, United States.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's eighth visit to Chicago and first since UFC 238 in June 2019.
A UFC Middleweight Championship bout between current champion (also former KSW Welterweight Champion) Dricus du Plessis and undefeated contender Khamzat Chimaev headlined the event. Nassourdine Imavov was expected to serve as backup and potential replacement for this fight, but he announced a month later that it would not be the case anymore as he was angling for a fight against Caio Borralho. In turn, Borralho announced that he would be the new backup for the main event. He and Imavov are still scheduled to headline UFC Fight Night: Imavov vs. Borralho three weeks later.
A welterweight bout between Geoff Neal and Carlos Prates took place at this event. They were originally scheduled to meet at UFC 314 in April, but Neal had to withdraw from the fight due to an injury.
A women's flyweight bout between Karine Silva and JJ Aldrich was scheduled for this event. However, Aldrich withdrew from the fight for undisclosed reasons and was replaced by Dione Barbosa.
The flyweight final of The Ultimate Fighter: Team Cormier vs. Team Sonnen took place at this event. The welterweight final between Rodrigo Sezinando and Daniil Donchenko was scheduled for the event but was moved to UFC Fight Night: Lopes vs. Silva one month later due to an injury suffered from Sezinando's side.
King Green and Carlos Diego Ferreira were expected to meet in a lightweight bout on the preliminary card. However, Green suffered an undisclosed injury during fight week and the pairing was scrapped.
At the weigh-ins, The Return of The Ultimate Fighter: Team Volkanovski vs. Team Ortega middleweight tournament winner Bryan Battle weighed in at 190 pounds, four pounds over the middleweight non-title fight limit. His bout with Nursulton Ruziboev was scheduled to proceed at catchweight, however shortly thereafter, it was announced that the bout had been cancelled and Battle was released from the UFC.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Middleweight | Khamzat Chimaev | def. | Dricus du Plessis (c) | Decision (unanimous) (50–44, 50–44, 50–44) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Lerone Murphy | def. | Aaron Pico | KO (spinning back elbow) | 1 | 3:21 |  |
| Welterweight | Carlos Prates | def. | Geoff Neal | KO (spinning back elbow) | 1 | 4:59 |  |
| Middleweight | Michael Page | def. | Jared Cannonier | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Tim Elliott | def. | Kai Asakura | Submission (guillotine choke) | 2 | 4:39 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+ / Disney+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Middleweight | Baysangur Susurkaev | def. | Eric Nolan | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 2:01 |  |
| Middleweight | Michał Oleksiejczuk | def. | Gerald Meerschaert | TKO (punches) | 1 | 3:03 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Loopy Godínez | def. | Jéssica Andrade | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Alexander Hernandez | def. | Chase Hooper | TKO (punches) | 1 | 4:58 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+ / Disney+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Drakkar Klose | def. | Edson Barboza | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Karine Silva | def. | Dione Barbosa | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Joseph Morales | def. | Alibi Idiris | Submission (triangle choke) | 2 | 3:04 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: No bonus awarded.
Performance of the Night: Khamzat Chimaev, Lerone Murphy, Carlos Prates, and Tim Elliott
