# UFC 309

UFC 309: Jones vs. Miocic was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on November 16, 2024, at Madison Square Garden in New York City, New York, United States.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's eleventh visit to New York City and first since UFC 295 in November 2023.
On November 14, it was reported that the UFC had notified fighters competing in upcoming events, including the current one, that the organization will reintroduce its previous glove design, which had been replaced at UFC 302 in June. UFC CEO Dana White cited frequent complaints from fighters over a six-month period.

A UFC Heavyweight Championship bout between former champion (also a former two-time UFC World Light Heavyweight Champion) Jon Jones and former two-time world champion Stipe Miocic headlined this event. They were previously expected to headline UFC 295 last November, but Jones withdrew due to a pectoral muscle injury. Interim champion at the time and current undisputed champion Tom Aspinall served as backup and potential replacement for this fight.
A five-round lightweight rematch between former UFC World Lightweight Champion Charles Oliveira and former three-time Bellator World Lightweight Champion (also a former UFC world lightweight title challenger) Michael Chandler took place as the co-main event. The pairing previously met for the vacant championship at UFC 262 in May 2021 which Oliveira won by second-round TKO.
A welterweight bout between Randy Brown and Carlos Prates was scheduled for this event. However, Prates ended up being scheduled to headline UFC Fight Night: Magny vs. Prates against Neil Magny a week earlier.
A lightweight bout between Maurício Ruffy and Charlie Campbell was scheduled for this event. However, Campbell withdrew from the fight for unknown reasons and was replaced by James Llontop. The pairing was also changed to a catchweight bout of 165 pounds. Llontop weighed in 1.2 lbs over the 165 lb catchweight limit and was fined 20 percent of his purse, which went to Ruffy.
On November 6, two fighters pulled out of the event: Azamat Murzakanov, who was scheduled to face Nikita Krylov in a light heavyweight bout, withdrew for unknown reasons; and Lucas Almeida, who was expected to face David Onama at featherweight, withdrew due to medical issues. Almeida was replaced by promotional newcomer Roberto Romero in a lightweight bout and no replacement was found for Krylov.
A middleweight bout between former UFC Middleweight Champion Chris Weidman and former LFA Middleweight Champion Eryk Anders was expected to take place at the event. However, Anders withdrew on the day of the event because of food poisoning the night before and the bout was scrapped. The bout was later rescheduled for UFC 310 in a 195 lb catchweight bout.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Heavyweight | Jon Jones (c) | def. | Stipe Miocic | TKO (spinning back kick and punches) | 3 | 4:29 |  |
| Lightweight | Charles Oliveira | def. | Michael Chandler | Decision (unanimous) (49–46, 49–46, 49–45) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Bo Nickal | def. | Paul Craig | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women’s Flyweight | Viviane Araújo | def. | Karine Silva | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Catchweight (166.2 lb) | Maurício Ruffy | def. | James Llontop | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPNews / FX / Hulu / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Bantamweight | Marcus McGhee | def. | Jonathan Martinez | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Jim Miller | def. | Damon Jackson | Submission (guillotine choke) | 1 | 2:44 |  |
| Lightweight | David Onama | def. | Roberto Romero | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Heavyweight | Marcin Tybura | def. | Jhonata Diniz | TKO (doctor stoppage) | 2 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Ramiz Brahimaj | def. | Mickey Gall | KO (punches) | 1 | 2:55 |  |
| Welterweight | Oban Elliott | def. | Bassil Hafez | KO (punches) | 3 | 0:40 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Eduarda Moura | def. | Veronica Hardy | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Charles Oliveira vs. Michael Chandler
Performance of the Night: Jon Jones, Ramiz Brahimaj, and Oban Elliott
