# UFC 278

UFC 278: Usman vs. Edwards 2 was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on August 20, 2022, at Vivint Arena in Salt Lake City, Utah, United States.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's second visit to Salt Lake City, following UFC Fight Night: Rodríguez vs. Caceres in August 2016.
A UFC Welterweight Championship bout between current champion (also The Ultimate Fighter: American Top Team vs. Blackzilians welterweight winner) Kamaru Usman and Leon Edwards headlined the event. The pairing previously met at UFC on Fox: dos Anjos vs. Cowboy 2 in December 2015 where Usman defeated Edwards by unanimous decision. 
A middleweight bout between former Strikeforce and UFC Middleweight Champion Luke Rockhold and former title challenger Paulo Costa was expected to take place at UFC 277. However, the bout was postponed to this event for unknown reasons.
A flyweight bout between Victor Altamirano and Jake Hadley was scheduled for this event. However, after Hadley pulled out of the bout due to injury he was replaced by Daniel Lacerda.
A women's flyweight bout between Miranda Maverick and Shanna Young was scheduled for the event. However, the bout was cancelled on the day of the weigh-ins as Young was hospitalized due to weight cut issues. They were rescheduled for UFC Fight Night 214.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Welterweight | Leon Edwards | def. | Kamaru Usman (c) | KO (head kick) | 5 | 4:04 |  |
| Middleweight | Paulo Costa | def. | Luke Rockhold | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Merab Dvalishvili | def. | José Aldo | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Bantamweight | Lucie Pudilová | def. | Wu Yanan | TKO (elbows) | 2 | 4:04 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Tyson Pedro | def. | Harry Hunsucker | TKO (body kick and punches) | 1 | 1:05 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+ / ABC) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Heavyweight | Marcin Tybura | def. | Alexander Romanov | Decision (majority) (29–28, 29–28, 28–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Jared Gordon | def. | Leonardo Santos | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Sean Woodson | vs. | Luis Saldaña | Draw (split) (29–27, 27–29, 28–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Ange Loosa | def. | A.J. Fletcher | Decision (unanimous) (29–27, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Flyweight | Amir Albazi | def. | Francisco Figueiredo | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 1 | 4:34 |  |
| Bantamweight | Aori Qileng | def. | Jay Perrin | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Victor Altamirano | def. | Daniel Lacerda | TKO (punches and elbows) | 1 | 3:39 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Paulo Costa vs. Luke Rockhold
Performance of the Night: Leon Edwards and Victor Altamirano
The following fighters received Crypto.com "Fan Bonus of the Night" awards paid in bitcoin of US$30,000 for first place, US$20,000 for second place, and US$10,000 for third place.

First Place: Paulo Costa
Second Place: Kamaru Usman
Third Place: José Aldo

## Reported payout

The following is the reported payout to the fighters as reported to the Utah Athletic Commission. The amounts do not include sponsor money, discretionary bonuses, viewership points or additional earnings. The total disclosed payout for the event was $2,542,000.

Leon Edwards: $350,000 (no win bonus) def. Kamaru Usman: $500,000
Paulo Costa: $130,000 (includes $65,000 win bonus) def. Luke Rockhold: $200,000
Merab Dvalishvili: $198,000 (includes $99,000 win bonus) def. José Aldo: $400,000
Lucie Pudilová: $48,000 (includes $24,000 win bonus) def. Wu Yanan: $20,000
Tyson Pedro: $86,000 (includes $43,000 win bonus) def. Harry Hunsucker: $12,000
Marcin Tybura: $240,000 (includes $120,000 win bonus) def. Alexandr Romanov: $36,000
Jared Gordon: $94,000 (includes $47,000 win bonus) def. Leonardo Santos: $44,000
Sean Woodson: $24,000 vs. Luis Saldaña: $14,000
Ange Loosa: $24,000 (includes $12,000 win bonus) def. A.J. Fletcher: $10,000
Amir Albazi: $32,000 (includes $16,000 win bonus) def. Francisco Figueiredo: $14,000
Aori Qileng: $24,000 (includes $12,000 win bonus) def. Jay Perrin: $12,000
Victor Altamirano: $20,000 (includes $10,000 win bonus) def. Daniel da Silva: $10,000
