# UFC 169

UFC 169: Barão vs. Faber 2 was a mixed martial arts event held on February 1, 2014, at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey.
The event was released on DVD on May 6, 2014. The DVD was distributed by the label Anchor Bay Entertainment.

## Background

A Light Heavyweight Championship bout between the current champion Jon Jones and #1 contender Glover Teixeira was briefly linked as the event headliner. However, just days after the announcement, Dana White indicated that "the timing didn't work out" for the pairing and that fight would take place at a later event.
The event was expected to be headlined by the long awaited return of the Bantamweight Champion Dominick Cruz. However, on January 6, UFC President Dana White announced that Cruz had torn his groin in training and pulled from the fight. Cruz had also vacated his title, making Renan Barão the undisputed bantamweight champion.  Stepping up to replace Cruz was Urijah Faber, in a rematch of their interim title bout at UFC 149.
Co-featured on the card was UFC Featherweight Champion José Aldo, who defended his title against top contender Ricardo Lamas.
A heavyweight bout between Frank Mir and Alistair Overeem, scheduled to take place at UFC 167, was moved to this event.
Bobby Green was expected to face Abel Trujillo at this event. However, Green pulled out of the fight for undisclosed reasons and was replaced by former WEC lightweight champion Jamie Varner.
Chris Cariaso was expected to face Kyoji Horiguchi at the event.  However, Horiguchi pulled out of the bout citing injury. He was replaced by WEC veteran Danny Martinez.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Bantamweight | Renan Barão (c) | def. | Urijah Faber | TKO (punches) | 1 | 3:42 |  |
| Featherweight | José Aldo (c) | def. | Ricardo Lamas | Decision (unanimous) (49–46, 49–46, 49–46) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Heavyweight | Alistair Overeem | def. | Frank Mir | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Ali Bagautinov | def. | John Lineker | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Abel Trujillo | def. | Jamie Varner | KO (punch) | 2 | 2:32 |  |
| Preliminary card (Fox Sports 1) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Alan Patrick | def. | John Makdessi | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Chris Cariaso | def. | Danny Martinez | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Nick Catone | def. | Tom Watson | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Al Iaquinta | def. | Kevin Lee | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 28–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Middleweight | Clint Hester | def. | Andy Enz | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–26) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Rashid Magomedov | def. | Anthony Rocco Martin | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Neil Magny | def. | Gasan Umalatov | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received bonuses:

Fight of The Night: Jamie Varner vs. Abel Trujillo ($75,000 each)
Knockout of The Night: Abel Trujillo ($50,000)
Submission of the Night: None awarded as no matches ended by submission

## Records set

This event, along with UFC Fight Night: Machida vs. Mousasi, UFC Fight Night: Silva vs. Bisping, UFC Fight Night: Werdum vs. Tybura, UFC Fight Night: Shogun vs. Smith and later UFC on ESPN: dos Anjos vs. Edwards, UFC Fight Night: Vieira vs. Tate and UFC on ABC: Hill vs. Rountree Jr. is currently tied for the second most decisions in a UFC event at 10, previously beating UFC 161. UFC 263 currently holds the record for most decisions in a UFC event at 11.
This event broke the record for the longest fight time with 2:51:14, later broken also by UFC 263 with 3:19:32.
