# UFC 160

UFC 160: Velasquez vs. Bigfoot 2 was a mixed martial arts event held on May 25, 2013, at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada.

## Background

The main event was a rematch between former UFC Heavyweight Champion Cain Velasquez and Antônio Silva.  In their first encounter at UFC 146 a year earlier, Velasquez defeated Silva via first-round TKO.
Alistair Overeem was expected to face Junior dos Santos at the event.  However, in early March, Overeem pulled out of the bout citing a leg injury.  It was initially announced that the bout would be rescheduled for a future event, later in the summer of this year. Then, on March 9 it was announced that Dos Santos would remain on the card and face Mark Hunt.
Ryan Bader was expected to face Glover Teixeira at the event but withdrew from the bout due to injury in March. He was replaced by James Te Huna
Amir Sadollah was expected to face Stephen Thompson at the event.  However, Sadollah pulled out of the bout citing an injury and was replaced by Nah-Shon Burrell.
Gunnar Nelson was expected to face Mike Pyle at the event.  However, Nelson pulled out of the bout citing an injury and was replaced by Rick Story.
Dana White announced at the UFC on Fox 7 post-fight press conference that he expects that the winner of the Gray Maynard/T. J. Grant fight would get a UFC Lightweight title shot against Benson Henderson.
At the weigh-ins, Khabib Nurmagomedov came in heavy weighing in at 158.5 lb.  Nurmagomedov was given two hours to cut to the lightweight maximum of 156 pounds, but he elected instead to surrender a percentage of his fight purse to his opponent Abel Trujillo and the bout was contested at a catchweight.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Heavyweight | Cain Velasquez (c) | def. | Antônio Silva | TKO (punches) | 1 | 1:21 |  |
| Heavyweight | Junior dos Santos | def. | Mark Hunt | KO (spinning hook kick) | 3 | 4:18 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Glover Teixeira | def. | James Te Huna | Submission (guillotine choke) | 1 | 2:38 |  |
| Lightweight | T. J. Grant | def. | Gray Maynard | KO (knee & punches) | 1 | 2:07 |  |
| Lightweight | Donald Cerrone | def. | K. J. Noons | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–26) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (FX) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Mike Pyle | def. | Rick Story | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Dennis Bermudez | def. | Max Holloway | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Robert Whittaker | def. | Colton Smith | TKO (punches) | 3 | 0:41 |  |
| Catchweight (158.5 lb) | Khabib Nurmagomedov | def. | Abel Trujillo | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (Facebook) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Stephen Thompson | def. | Nah-Shon Burrell | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | George Roop | def. | Brian Bowles | TKO (punches) | 2 | 1:43 |  |
| Featherweight | Jeremy Stephens | def. | Estevan Payan | Decision (unanimous) (30–26, 30–26, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Junior Dos Santos vs. Mark Hunt
Knockout of the Night: T. J. Grant
Submission of the Night: Glover Teixeira

## Reported payout

The following is the reported payout to the fighters as reported to the Nevada State Athletic Commission. It does not include sponsor money and also does not include the UFC's traditional "fight night" bonuses.

Cain Velasquez: $400,000 (no win bonus) def. Antônio Silva: $75,000
Junior dos Santos: $240,000 (includes $120,000 win bonus) def. Mark Hunt: $160,000
Glover Teixeira: $48,000 (includes $24,000 win bonus) def. James Te-Huna: $30,000
T. J. Grant: $50,000 (includes $25,000 win bonus) def. Gray Maynard: $45,000
Donald Cerrone: $82,000 (includes $41,000 win bonus) def. K. J. Noons: $41,000
Mike Pyle: $84,000 (includes $42,000 win bonus) def. Rick Story: $27,000
Dennis Bermudez: $28,000 (includes $14,000 win bonus) def. Max Holloway: $14,000
Robert Whittaker: $30,000 (includes $15,000 win bonus) def. Colton Smith: $15,000
Khabib Nurmagomedov: $28,000 (includes $14,000 win bonus) def. Abel Trujillo: $8,000 ^
Stephen Thompson: $16,000 (includes $8,000 win bonus) def. Nah-Shon Burrell: $9,000
George Roop: $26,000 (includes $13,000 win bonus ) def. Brian Bowles: $19,000
Jeremy Stephens: $48,000 (includes $24,000 win bonus) def. Estevan Payan: $10,000
^ Khabib Nurmagomedov was reportedly fined 20 percent of his purse for failing to make the required weight for his fight. The Nevada State Athletic Commission's initial report did not include information on the penalty.
