# UFC 296

UFC 296: Edwards vs. Covington was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on December 16, 2023, at the T-Mobile Arena in Paradise, Nevada, part of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Area, United States.

## Background

A UFC Welterweight Championship bout between current champion Leon Edwards and former interim champion Colby Covington headlined the event. Belal Muhammad served as backup and potential replacement for this fight.
A UFC Flyweight Championship bout between current champion Alexandre Pantoja and former LFA Flyweight Champion Brandon Royval took place at the event. The pair previously met at UFC on ESPN: Cannonier vs. Gastelum in August 2021 which Pantoja won by second-round submission. Former two-time champion Brandon Moreno served as backup and potential replacement for this fight.
A featherweight bout between former interim UFC Featherweight Championship challenger Josh Emmett and Giga Chikadze was expected to take place at this event. However, Chikadze withdrew due to a torn groin and was replaced by Bryce Mitchell.
A welterweight bout between Ian Machado Garry and Vicente Luque was expected to take place at the event. However, the bout was scrapped after Garry withdrew due to contracting pneumonia the week of the event.
A welterweight bout between Randy Brown and Muslim Salikhov was expected to take place at the event but was scrapped after Brown withdrew due to illness.

### Strickland-du Plessis brawl

UFC Middleweight Champion Sean Strickland and challenger Dricus du Plessis were in attendance at the event, seated within two rows of each-other by Dana White's arrangement. While exchanging words, Strickland gestured for audience members to move and attacked du Plessis. The brawl was quickly broken up and Strickland was escorted out of the event. Despite the altercation, du Plessis pressed no charges.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Welterweight | Leon Edwards (c) | def. | Colby Covington | Decision (unanimous) (49–46, 49–46, 49–46) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Alexandre Pantoja (c) | def. | Brandon Royval | Decision (unanimous) (50–45, 50–45, 49–46) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Shavkat Rakhmonov | def. | Stephen Thompson | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 4:56 |  |
| Lightweight | Paddy Pimblett | def. | Tony Ferguson | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Josh Emmett | def. | Bryce Mitchell | KO (punch) | 1 | 1:57 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN2 / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Alonzo Menifield | def. | Dustin Jacoby | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Bantamweight | Irene Aldana | def. | Karol Rosa | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Cody Garbrandt | def. | Brian Kelleher | KO (punch) | 1 | 3:42 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Ariane Lipski | def. | Casey O'Neill | Submission (armbar) | 2 | 1:18 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Flyweight | Tagir Ulanbekov | def. | Cody Durden | Submission (face crank) | 2 | 4:25 |  |
| Featherweight | Andre Fili | def. | Lucas Almeida | TKO (punches) | 1 | 3:32 |  |
| Heavyweight | Shamil Gaziev | def. | Martin Buday | TKO (punches) | 2 | 0:56 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Irene Aldana vs. Karol Rosa
Performance of the Night: Josh Emmett, Ariane Lipski, and Shamil Gaziev
