# UFC 292

UFC 292: Sterling vs. O'Malley was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on August 19, 2023, at the TD Garden in Boston, Massachusetts, United States.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's seventh visit to Boston and first since UFC on ESPN: Reyes vs. Weidman in October 2019.
A UFC Bantamweight Championship bout between current champion Aljamain Sterling and Sean O'Malley headlined the event.
A UFC Women's Strawweight Championship bout between current two-time champion Zhang Weili and Amanda Lemos served as the co-headliner.
The lightweight and bantamweight finals of The Ultimate Fighter: Team McGregor vs. Team Chandler took place at the event.
Former LFA Middleweight Champion Gregory Rodrigues and Denis Tiuliulin were expected to meet in a middleweight bout at UFC on ABC: Emmett vs. Topuria. However, the bout was postponed to this event after Tiuliulin withdrew due to undisclosed reasons.
A bantamweight bout between former UFC Flyweight and Bantamweight Champion Henry Cejudo (also 2008 Olympic gold medalist in freestyle wrestling) and Marlon Vera was expected to take place at the event.  However, Cejudo withdrew in late June due to a shoulder injury. He was replaced by Pedro Munhoz.
A bantamweight bout between Rob Font and Song Yadong was expected to take place at the event. However, Yadong withdrew for unknown reasons and Font was instead scheduled to face Cory Sandhagen two weeks prior at UFC on ESPN: Sandhagen vs. Font as Sandhagen was in need of a new opponent.
A welterweight bout between Ian Machado Garry and Geoff Neal was expected to take place at the event. However, Neal withdrew due to undisclosed health reasons. He was replaced by Neil Magny.
Former bantamweight champion Cody Garbrandt was scheduled to face Mario Bautista. However, Garbrandt pulled out due to injury a week before the event. He was replaced by Da'Mon Blackshear, who last fought a week before at UFC on ESPN: Luque vs. dos Anjos.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Bantamweight | Sean O'Malley | def. | Aljamain Sterling (c) | TKO (punches) | 2 | 0:51 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Zhang Weili (c) | def. | Amanda Lemos | Decision (unanimous) (50–43, 50–44, 49–45) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Ian Machado Garry | def. | Neil Magny | Decision (unanimous) (30–26, 30–26, 30–24) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Mario Bautista | def. | Da'Mon Blackshear | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Marlon Vera | def. | Pedro Munhoz | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Middleweight | Brad Tavares | def. | Chris Weidman | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Gregory Rodrigues | def. | Denis Tiuliulin | KO (elbows) | 1 | 1:43 |  |
| Lightweight | Kurt Holobaugh | def. | Austin Hubbard | Submission (triangle choke) | 2 | 2:39 |  |
| Bantamweight | Brad Katona | def. | Cody Gibson | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Middleweight | Andre Petroski | def. | Gerald Meerschaert | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Natália Silva | def. | Andrea Lee | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Karine Silva | def. | Maryna Moroz | Submission (guillotine choke) | 1 | 4:59 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Brad Katona vs. Cody Gibson
Performance of the Night: Sean O'Malley and Zhang Weili

## Reported payout

The following is the reported payout to the athletes as reported to the Massachusetts State Athletic Commission (MSAC). It does not include sponsor money or "locker room" bonuses often given by the UFC.

Sean O’Malley: $500,000 (no win bonus) def. Aljamain Sterling: $500,000
Zhang Weili: $520,000 (no win bonus) def. Amanda Lemos: $250,000
Ian Machado Garry: $100,000 (includes $50,000 win bonus) def. Neil Magny: $134,000
Mario Bautista: $86,000 (includes $43,000 win bonus) def. Da’Mon Blackshear: $27,000
Marlon Vera: $310,000 (includes $155,000 win bonus) def. Pedro Munhoz: $150,000
Brad Tavares: $200,000 (includes $100,000 win bonus) def. Chris Weidman: $426,000
Gregory Rodrigues: $100,000 (includes $50,000 win bonus) def. Denis Tiuliulin: $14,000
Kurt Holobaugh: $30,000 (includes $15,000 win bonus) def. Austin Hubbard: $32,000
Brad Katona: $64,000 (includes $32,000 win bonus) def. Cody Gibson: $15,000
Andre Petroski: $36,000 (includes $18,000 win bonus) def. Gerald Meerschaert: $100,000
Natália Silva: $80,000 (includes $40,000 win bonus) def. Andrea Lee: $70,000
Karine Silva: $28,000 (includes $14,000 win bonus) def. Maryna Moroz: $50,000
