# UFC 281

UFC 281: Adesanya vs. Pereira was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on November 12, 2022, at the Madison Square Garden in New York City, New York, United States.

## Background

A UFC Middleweight Championship bout between current champion Israel Adesanya and former Glory Middleweight and Light Heavyweight Champion Alex Pereira headlined the event. The pairing previously met twice in kickboxing matchups. The first in April 2016 which Pereira won by unanimous decision. Their second meeting took place at Glory of Heroes 7 in March 2017, which Pereira won by third-round knockout.
A UFC Women's Strawweight Championship bout between current two-time champion Carla Esparza and former champion Zhang Weili took place at the event.
A lightweight bout between Matt Frevola and returning veteran Ottman Azaitar was rescheduled for this event. The pairing was previously scheduled to meet in January 2021 at UFC 257, but Azaitar was pulled from the bout and had his contract briefly terminated after it was determined that he had violated COVID-19 health and safety protocols, as he attempted to help others enter the UFC's designated safety zone during fight week.
At the weigh-ins, Ryan Spann and The Ultimate Fighter: Undefeated lightweight winner Michael Trizano missed weight. Spann weighed in at 206.6 pounds, six tenths of a pound over the light heavyweight non-title fight limit. Trizano weighed in at 147.6 pounds, one and six tenths of a pound over the featherweight non-title fight limit. Both bouts proceeded at catchweight with each being fined 20% of their individual purses, which went to their opponents former UFC Light Heavyweight Championship challenger Dominick Reyes and Seung Woo Choi respectively.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Middleweight | Alex Pereira | def. | Israel Adesanya (c) | TKO (punches) | 5 | 2:01 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Zhang Weili | def. | Carla Esparza (c) | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 1:05 |  |
| Lightweight | Dustin Poirier | def. | Michael Chandler | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 3 | 2:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Chris Gutiérrez | def. | Frankie Edgar | KO (knee) | 1 | 2:01 |  |
| Lightweight | Dan Hooker | def. | Claudio Puelles | TKO (body kick) | 2 | 4:06 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPNews / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Renato Moicano | def. | Brad Riddell | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 1 | 3:20 |  |
| Catchweight (206.6 lb) | Ryan Spann | def. | Dominick Reyes | KO (punches) | 1 | 1:20 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Erin Blanchfield | def. | Molly McCann | Submission (kimura) | 1 | 3:37 |  |
| Middleweight | Andre Petroski | def. | Wellington Turman | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Matt Frevola | def. | Ottman Azaitar | KO (punch) | 1 | 2:30 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Karolina Kowalkiewicz | def. | Silvana Gómez Juárez | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Catchweight (147.6 lb) | Michael Trizano | def. | Seung Woo Choi | KO (punches) | 1 | 4:51 |  |
| Bantamweight | Montel Jackson | def. | Julio Arce | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Carlos Ulberg | def. | Nicolae Negumereanu | KO (punches) | 1 | 3:44 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Dustin Poirier vs. Michael Chandler
Performance of the Night: Alex Pereira and Zhang Weili

## Aftermath

With eleven finishes, this event ties UFC Fight Night: Rockhold vs. Bisping, UFC 224, UFC Fight Night: Imavov vs. Borralho and UFC 329 for most finishes in a single UFC event. It also ties the record for most first-round finishes in a single UFC event with seven. This event was also given the 2022 UFC Honors Event of the Year award as voted by the fans.
