# UFC 294

UFC 294: Makhachev vs. Volkanovski 2 was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on October 21, 2023, at the Etihad Arena in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's 18th visit to Abu Dhabi and first since UFC 280 in October 2022.

A UFC Lightweight Championship rematch between current champion Islam Makhachev and former champion Charles Oliveira was expected to headline the event. The pair previously met at UFC 280 one year prior, where Makhachev captured the vacant title by second round submission. However, Oliveira withdrew due to injury and was replaced by UFC Featherweight Champion Alexander Volkanovski. This marked the first time that champions in different divisions rematch for the same title and the ninth time overall that champions in different divisions fought for the same title, following UFC 94, UFC 205, UFC 226, UFC 232, UFC Fight Night: Cejudo vs. Dillashaw, UFC 259, UFC 277 and UFC 284, the latter event in which Makhachev defeated Volkanovski by unanimous decision. If successful, Volkanovski would have become the fifth person to be champion in two divisions simultaneously (after Conor McGregor at UFC 205, Daniel Cormier at UFC 226, Amanda Nunes at UFC 232 and UFC 277, and Henry Cejudo at UFC 238), as well as the eighth person overall to win a title in different divisions. Former KSW Featherweight and Lightweight Champion Mateusz Gamrot served as backup and potential replacement for this fight.
A middleweight bout between Ikram Aliskerov and Nassourdine Imavov was expected to take place at the event. However, Imavov withdrew due to visa issues and was replaced by The Ultimate Fighter: Brazil 3 middleweight winner Warlley Alves.
A middleweight bout between former UFC Middleweight Championship challenger Paulo Costa and Khamzat Chimaev was expected to take place at the event. However, Costa withdrew after he underwent surgery on his elbow and was replaced by former UFC Welterweight Champion Kamaru Usman.
At the weigh-ins, Victoria Dudakova weighed in at 116.6 pounds, 0.6 pounds over the strawweight non-title fight limit. Mike Breeden weighed in at 159.5 pounds, three and a half pounds over the lightweight non-title fight limit. Both of their bouts proceeded at catchweight with Dudakova being fined 20% of her purse and Breeden 30%, which went to their opponents former Invicta FC Atomweight Champion Jinh Yu Frey and Road to UFC Season 1 lightweight tournament winner Anshul Jubli, respectively.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Lightweight | Islam Makhachev (c) | def. | Alexander Volkanovski | KO (head kick and punches) | 1 | 3:06 |  |
| Middleweight | Khamzat Chimaev | def. | Kamaru Usman | Decision (majority) (29–27, 29–27, 28–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Magomed Ankalaev | vs. | Johnny Walker | No Contest (illegal knee) | 1 | 3:13 |  |
| Middleweight | Ikram Aliskerov | def. | Warlley Alves | TKO (flying knee and punches) | 1 | 2:07 |  |
| Bantamweight | Said Nurmagomedov | def. | Muin Gafurov | Submission (guillotine choke) | 1 | 1:13 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Flyweight | Muhammad Mokaev | def. | Tim Elliott | Submission (arm-triangle choke) | 3 | 3:03 |  |
| Lightweight | Trevor Peek | def. | Mohammad Yahya | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Javid Basharat | vs. | Victor Henry | No Contest (accidental groin kick) | 2 | 0:15 |  |
| Middleweight | Sedriques Dumas | def. | Abu Azaitar | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Catchweight (159.5 lb) | Mike Breeden | def. | Anshul Jubli | KO (punches) | 3 | 3:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Muhammad Naimov | def. | Nathaniel Wood | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Catchweight (116.6 lb) | Victoria Dudakova | def. | Jinh Yu Frey | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Sharabutdin Magomedov | def. | Bruno Silva | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: No bonus awarded.
Performance of the Night: Islam Makhachev, Ikram Aliskerov, Said Nurmagomedov, and 	Muhammad Mokaev
