# UFC 178

UFC 178: Johnson vs. Cariaso was a mixed martial arts event held on September 27, 2014, at the  MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada.

## Background

The event was supposed to be headlined by a UFC Light Heavyweight Championship rematch between champion Jon Jones and Alexander Gustafsson. Jones won their first fight at UFC 165 by unanimous decision. Gustafsson pulled out of the bout due to a torn right meniscus and lateral collateral ligament. He was replaced by Daniel Cormier on July 23. However, on August 12, Jones was forced to pull out of the bout against Cormier citing a leg injury. The fight was rescheduled to take place at UFC 182. As a result, a Flyweight Title fight between Demetrious Johnson and Chris Cariaso was moved from UFC 177 to headline this card.
The event marked the return of former bantamweight champion Dominick Cruz, after nearly three years on the sideline, first with a coaching assignment on The Ultimate Fighter 15, then with various lengthy injury rehabilitations. He was matched up against Takeya Mizugaki.
A lightweight bout between Donald Cerrone and Khabib Nurmagomedov was briefly linked to this event. However, the pairing was cancelled after Nurmagomedov suffered a knee injury that sidelined him indefinitely.
Jorge Masvidal and Bobby Green were originally scheduled to face each other on this card. However, on August 14, the UFC announced that Green would now face Donald Cerrone and Masvidal would face James Krause.
On August 19, following his release from Bellator MMA, Eddie Alvarez signed with the UFC and made his debut against Donald Cerrone in the co-main event for the card. Bobby Green, Cerrone's earlier opponent, was booked for a future fight card against a new opponent.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Flyweight | Demetrious Johnson (c) | def. | Chris Cariaso | Submission (kimura) | 2 | 2:29 |  |
| Lightweight | Donald Cerrone | def. | Eddie Alvarez | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Conor McGregor | def. | Dustin Poirier | TKO (punches) | 1 | 1:46 |  |
| Middleweight | Yoel Romero | def. | Tim Kennedy | TKO (punches) | 3 | 0:58 |  |
| Women's Bantamweight | Cat Zingano | def. | Amanda Nunes | TKO (elbows and punches) | 3 | 1:21 |  |
| Preliminary card (Fox Sports 1) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Bantamweight | Dominick Cruz | def. | Takeya Mizugaki | KO (punches) | 1 | 1:01 |  |
| Lightweight | Jorge Masvidal | def. | James Krause | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Stephen Thompson | def. | Patrick Côté | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Brian Ebersole | def. | John Howard | Decision (split) (29–28, 28–29, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Kevin Lee | def. | Jon Tuck | Decision (unanimous) (30–26, 30–26, 30–26) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Manny Gamburyan | def. | Cody Gibson | Submission (guillotine choke) | 2 | 4:56 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses:

Fight of the Night: Yoel Romero vs. Tim Kennedy
Performance of the Night: Dominick Cruz and Conor McGregor

## Reported payout

The following is the reported payout to the fighters as reported to the Nevada State Athletic Commission. It does not include sponsor money and also does not include the UFC's traditional "fight night" bonuses.

Demetrious Johnson: $183,000 (includes $54,000 win bonus) def. Chris Cariaso: $24,000
Donald Cerrone: $126,000 (includes $63,000 win bonus) def. Eddie Alvarez: $100,000
Conor McGregor: $150,000 (includes $75,000 win bonus) def. Dustin Poirier: $34,000
Yoel Romero: $58,000 (includes $29,000 win bonus) def. Tim Kennedy: $70,000
Cat Zingano: $18,000 (includes $9,000 win bonus) def. Amanda Nunes: $15,000
Dominick Cruz: $100,000 (includes $50,000 win bonus) def. Takeya Mizugaki: $32,000
Jorge Masvidal: $90,000 (includes $45,000 win bonus) def. James Krause: $15,000
Stephen Thompson: $32,000 (includes $16,000 win bonus) def. Patrick Côté: $33,000
Brian Ebersole: $42,000 (includes $21,000 win bonus) def. John Howard: $21,000
Kevin Lee: $20,000 (includes $10,000 win bonus) def. Jon Tuck: $10,000
Manvel Gamburyan: $50,000 (includes $25,000 win bonus) def. Cody Gibson: $10,000
