# UFC 289

UFC 289: Nunes vs. Aldana was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on June 10, 2023, at Rogers Arena in  Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's 32nd overall visit to Canada and sixth to Vancouver, returning to the country for the first time since UFC Fight Night: Cowboy vs. Gaethje in September 2019.
A UFC Women's Bantamweight Championship trilogy bout between current two-time champion (also current UFC Women's Featherweight Champion) Amanda Nunes and former champion (also The Ultimate Fighter: Team Rousey vs. Team Tate bantamweight winner) Julianna Peña was expected to headline the event.  However on May 2, Peña pulled out due to broken ribs and was replaced by Irene Aldana, who was scheduled to headline UFC Fight Night: Dern vs. Hill in a rematch against former title challenger Raquel Pennington. The latter served as a backup for the title bout.
A lightweight bout between former UFC Lightweight Champion Charles Oliveira and Beneil Dariush took place as the co-main event. They were originally  booked at UFC 288, but Oliveira withdrew due to injury.
A middleweight bout between Chris Curtis and Nassourdine Imavov took place at the event. The two fighters were scheduled to face each other pre-UFC at ARES FC 2 in October 2020, but the event was canceled due to COVID-19 complications.
A welterweight bout between former UFC Welterweight Championship challenger Stephen Thompson and Michel Pereira was expected for this event. However, contracts were never signed and the bout is expected to take place at UFC 291 instead.
Matt Schnell and David Dvořák were scheduled to meet in a flyweight bout on the preliminary card. However, Schnell pulled out due to injury and was replaced by Stephen Erceg.
A featherweight bout between Hakeem Dawodu and Lucas Almeida was expected to take place at the event. However, the bout was scrapped for unknown reasons and Almeida was instead scheduled to face Pat Sabatini at UFC on ESPN: Vettori vs. Cannonier.
Chris Daukaus was expected to make his light heavyweight debut against Khalil Rountree Jr. at the event. However, Daukaus withdrew in early June due to injury. The bout was rescheduled for UFC on ESPN: Luque vs. dos Anjos.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Women's Bantamweight | Amanda Nunes (c) | def. | Irene Aldana | Decision (unanimous) (50–44, 50–44, 50–43) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Charles Oliveira | def. | Beneil Dariush | TKO (punches) | 1 | 4:10 |  |
| Welterweight | Mike Malott | def. | Adam Fugitt | Submission (guillotine choke) | 2 | 1:06 |  |
| Featherweight | Dan Ige | def. | Nate Landwehr | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Marc-André Barriault | def. | Eryk Anders | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Middleweight | Nassourdine Imavov | vs. | Chris Curtis | No Contest (accidental clash of heads) | 2 | 3:04 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Jasmine Jasudavicius | def. | Miranda Maverick | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Aiemann Zahabi | def. | Aori Qileng | KO (punches) | 1 | 1:04 |  |
| Featherweight | Kyle Nelson | def. | Blake Bilder | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Flyweight | Steve Erceg | def. | David Dvořák | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Diana Belbiţă | def. | Maria Oliveira | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Marc-André Barriault vs. Eryk Anders
Performance of the Night: Charles Oliveira, Mike Malott, and Steve Erceg
