# UFC 331

UFC 331 is an upcoming mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that is scheduled to take place on September 19, 2026, at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles, California.

## Background

The event will mark the promotion's sixth visit to Los Angeles and first since UFC 227 in August 2018. Initial reports had speculated that the event may have been held at the Intuit Dome in Inglewood, California or be part of the promotion's Noche UFC 4 celebration of Mexican Independence Day in Glendale, Arizona.
A UFC Flyweight Championship rematch between current champion Joshua Van and former champion Alexandre Pantoja is expected to take place at the event. They previously competed in December 2025 at UFC 323, where Van won the belt via technical knockout 26 seconds into the first round as a result of an arm injury sustained by Pantoja.
A bantamweight bout between former UFC Bantamweight Championship challenger Marlon Vera and Charles Jourdain is scheduled to take place at the event. The bout was originally scheduled to take place at UFC Fight Night: du Plessis vs. Usman in July, but was moved to this event for undisclosed reasons.
A heavyweight bout between former interim UFC Heavyweight Championship challenger Curtis Blaydes and former LFA Heavyweight Champion Waldo Cortes-Acosta was scheduled for the event. However, the bout is actually scheduled to take place one week prior at UFC Fight Night 288.

## Announced bouts

UFC Flyweight Championship bout: Joshua Van (c) vs. Alexandre Pantoja
Bantamweight bout: Marlon Vera vs. Charles Jourdain
