# UFC 315

UFC 315: Muhammad vs. Della Maddalena was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on May 10, 2025, at the Bell Centre in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's eighth visit to Montreal and first since UFC 186 in April 2015.
A UFC Welterweight Championship bout between current champion Belal Muhammad and Jack Della Maddalena headlined this event. Ian Machado Garry served as backup and potential replacement for this fight.
A UFC Women's Flyweight Championship bout between current two-time champion Valentina Shevchenko and Manon Fiorot took place in the co-main event.
A welterweight bout between former welterweight title challenger Gilbert Burns and Michael Morales was scheduled for UFC 314. However, the pairing was moved to this event due to undisclosed reasons. In turn, the bout was moved to UFC Fight Night: Burns vs. Morales to serve as the main event.
A women's bantamweight bout between Nora Cornolle and Hailey Cowan was expected to take place at this event. However, the bout was moved to UFC 314 for unknown reasons.
Gavin Tucker was expected to face Lee Jeong-yeong in a featherweight bout at the preliminary card. However, Tucker pulled out in late April due to undisclosed reasons and was replaced by Daniel Santos.
A lightweight bout between Benoît Saint Denis and Joel Álvarez was scheduled for this event.  However, Álvarez withdrew from the fight due to a hand injury and was replaced by returning veteran Kyle Prepolec.
Originally scheduled as a bantamweight bout, the fight between former two-time UFC Featherweight Champion and UFC Hall of Famer (also former WEC Featherweight Champion) José Aldo and Aiemann Zahabi was moved to featherweight on the day of the weigh-ins, with Aldo weighing in at 143 pounds and Zahabi at 142 pounds. After the official weigh-ins, Zahabi disclosed that his team was told Aldo's weight cut was going to be a problem and said he was just under 137 pounds at the time. Had he made weight, Aldo's weight discrepancy would have meant an automatic cancellation of the bout. Instead, Zahabi stopped his weight cut and had to rehydrate for a fight at featherweight so he could be close enough to Aldo's missed weight to avoid the fight being scrapped entirely.
In addition, at the weigh-ins, Bruno Silva weighed in at 187 pounds, a pound over the weight non-title fight limit. The bout proceeded at catchweight and Silva was fined 20 percent of his purse which went to his opponent Marc-André Barriault.
During the event's broadcast, former UFC Light Heavyweight Champion and UFC 12 Heavyweight Tournament winner Vitor Belfort was announced as the next "pioneer wing" UFC Hall of Fame inductee during International Fight Week festivities in Las Vegas this June.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Welterweight | Jack Della Maddalena | def. | Belal Muhammad (c) | Decision (unanimous) (48–47, 48–47, 49–46) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Valentina Shevchenko (c) | def. | Manon Fiorot | Decision (unanimous) (48–47, 48–47, 48–47) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Aiemann Zahabi | def. | José Aldo | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Natália Silva | def. | Alexa Grasso | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Benoît Saint Denis | def. | Kyle Prepolec | Submission (arm-triangle choke) | 2 | 2:35 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+ / Disney+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Mike Malott | def. | Charles Radtke | KO (punches) | 2 | 0:26 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Jasmine Jasudavicius | def. | Jéssica Andrade | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 1 | 2:40 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Modestas Bukauskas | def. | Ion Cuțelaba | Decision (split) (27–30, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Navajo Stirling | def. | Ivan Erslan | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / Disney+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Catchweight (187 lb) | Marc-André Barriault | def. | Bruno Silva | KO (elbows and punches) | 1 | 1:27 |  |
| Featherweight | Daniel Santos | def. | Lee Jeong-yeong | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Bekzat Almakhan | def. | Brad Katona | KO (punches) | 1 | 1:04 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Jack Della Maddalena vs. Belal Muhammad
Performance of the Night: Jasmine Jasudavicius and Marc-André Barriault
