# UFC 320

UFC 320: Ankalaev vs. Pereira 2 was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on October 4, 2025, at the T-Mobile Arena in Paradise, Nevada, part of the Las Vegas Valley, United States.

## Background

This event was originally expected to take place in Guadalajara, Mexico  on September 13 and serve as the third annual "Noche UFC" event commemorating Mexico's independence day. However, due to the construction of Arena Guadalajara being stalled, the card was moved to San Antonio, Texas and shifted to a Fight Night. The promotion announced a week later that the numbered event would be moved to October and took place in Las Vegas.
A UFC Light Heavyweight Championship rematch between current champion Magomed Ankalaev and former champion Alex Pereira (also former UFC Middleweight Champion, former Glory Middleweight and Light Heavyweight Champion) headlined the event. They previously competed at UFC 313 where Ankalaev defeated Pereira for the championship via unanimous decision. Former champion (also the inaugural Rizin Light Heavyweight Champion) Jiří Procházka, who met former title challenger Khalil Rountree Jr. at the event, served as backup and potential replacement for this fight.
In addition, a UFC Bantamweight Championship bout between current champion Merab Dvalishvili and former interim title challenger Cory Sandhagen co-headlined the event.
A featherweight bout between Daniel Santos and Yoo Joo-sang was scheduled for UFC Fight Night: Ulberg vs. Reyes a week before, but it was eventually moved to this event due to undisclosed reasons.
Ateba Gautier and former LFA Middleweight Champion Osman Diaz were scheduled to meet in a middleweight bout at this event. However, Diaz pulled out from the event due to a medical issue and was replaced by promotional newcomer Tre'ston Vines.
At the weigh-ins, The Ultimate Fighter: Heavy Hitters featherweight winner Macy Chiasson weighed in at 137.5 pounds, one and a half pounds over the women's bantamweight non-title fight limit. The bout proceeded at catchweight and she was fined a percentage of her purse, which went to her opponent former Invicta FC Bantamweight Champion and UFC Women's Featherweight Championship challenger Yana Santos. The featherweight bout between Daniel Santos and Yoo Joo-sang was also changed to a catchweight bout of 153 pounds.

## Event

### Main card

#### Dvalishvili vs. Sandhagen

The fight was predicted by most outlets to be another win by Dvalishvili, noting his wrestling expertise and impressive cardio. However, Sandhagen's striking ability and aggression was noted as potentially being able to change the tide of the fight.
The bout started out with a close round where Sandhagen saw some success against Dvalishvili. Dvalishvili controlled the bout against Sandhagen starting in the second round, dropping Sandhagen and landing over 8 takedowns over 13 attempts. Dvalishvili later expressed surprise he could not finish Sandhagen in the second round, where he landed over 33 strikes compared to just 2 by Sandhagen.

#### Ankalaev vs. Pereira

Before the fight, many commentators and sites predicted a similar result to the previous fight, where Ankalaev out-struck Pereira standing up. Pereira claimed that he only fought at "40 percent" of his strength in the previous fight, dealing with an injured hand.
Contrary to predictions of a close match, the fight saw Pereira immediately dominating Ankalaev, backing him to the fence and attacking him with calf kicks and a right hand. After being hit with a right hand, Ankalaev unsuccessfully shot for a takedown, leading Pereira to bombard him with elbows and punches until the fight was ruled a technical knockout eighty seconds in.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Light Heavyweight | Alex Pereira | def. | Magomed Ankalaev (c) | TKO (punches and elbows) | 1 | 1:20 |  |
| Bantamweight | Merab Dvalishvili (c) | def. | Cory Sandhagen | Decision (unanimous) (49–45, 49–45, 49–46) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Jiří Procházka | def. | Khalil Rountree Jr. | KO (punches) | 3 | 3:04 |  |
| Featherweight | Youssef Zalal | def. | Josh Emmett | Submission (armbar) | 1 | 1:38 |  |
| Middleweight | Joe Pyfer | def. | Abusupiyan Magomedov | Submission (face crank) | 2 | 1:46 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPNEWS / ESPN+ / Disney+ / FX) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Middleweight | Ateba Gautier | def. | Tre'ston Vines | KO (elbows and punches) | 1 | 1:41 |  |
| Catchweight (153 lb) | Daniel Santos | def. | Yoo Joo-sang | TKO (punches) | 2 | 0:21 |  |
| Bantamweight | Jakub Wikłacz | def. | Patchy Mix | Decision (split) (29–28, 28–29, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | Edmen Shahbazyan | def. | André Muniz | KO (punches and elbows) | 1 | 4:58 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / Disney+ / FX / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Punahele Soriano | def. | Nikolay Veretennikov | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Catchweight (137.5 lb) | Yana Santos | def. | Macy Chiasson | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Farid Basharat | def. | Chris Gutiérrez | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Ramiz Brahimaj | def. | Austin Vanderford | Submission (guillotine choke) | 2 | 2:24 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Veronica Hardy | def. | Brogan Walker | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Jiří Procházka vs. Khalil Rountree Jr.
Performance of the Night: Alex Pereira, Jiří Procházka, and Joe Pyfer

## Aftermath

This event won the UFC Honors 2025 Event of the Year award as voted by the fans.
