# UFC 274

UFC 274: Oliveira vs. Gaethje was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on May 7, 2022, at the Footprint Center in Phoenix, Arizona, United States.

## Background

The event was originally linked to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, but the promotion eventually decided to move the event from that location. It took place in Phoenix, Arizona. It was the city's first event since UFC on ESPN: Ngannou vs. Velasquez in February 2019.
A UFC Light Heavyweight Championship bout between current champion Glover Teixeira and former Rizin Light Heavyweight Champion Jiří Procházka was expected to take place at the event. However, the bout was pushed back to UFC 275 for undisclosed reasons.
A UFC Lightweight Championship bout between current champion Charles Oliveira and former interim champion Justin Gaethje (also former WSOF Lightweight Champion) headlined the event. At the weigh-ins, Oliveira weighed in at 155.5 pounds, half a pound over the title limit. As a result, upon commencement of the fight, Oliveira was stripped of the title and only Gaethje was eligible to win it. 
A UFC Women's Strawweight Championship rematch between current two-time champion Rose Namajunas and former champion (also former Invicta FC Strawweight Champion) Carla Esparza took place at the event. The pairing previously met 7 and a half years prior at The Ultimate Fighter: A Champion Will Be Crowned Finale for the inaugural championship, which Esparza won via third round submission. 
A lightweight bout between Joe Lauzon and former lightweight title challenger Donald Cerrone was scheduled for UFC on ESPN: Font vs. Vera. However, the bout was removed from this event. In turn, the bout was cancelled on the day of the event when Cerrone suffered from food poisoning.
Amanda Ribas and former Invicta FC Atomweight Champion Michelle Waterson were expected to meet at this event. They were originally expected to meet at UFC 257, but Waterson pulled out of the bout due to undisclosed reasons. They were then rescheduled for UFC Fight Night: Blaydes vs. Daukaus, but an injury forced Waterson out of the pairing once again. Waterson announced in early March that her injury could potentially be "career ending" and would not compete at this event.
A lightweight bout between Michael Johnson and Alan Patrick was expected to take place at the event. However, the bout was pushed back one week to UFC on ESPN: Błachowicz vs. Rakić for undisclosed reasons.
At the weigh-ins, Norma Dumont weighed in at 146.5 pounds, half a pound over the women's featherweight non-title fight limit. Her bout proceeded at catchweight and she was fined 30% of her individual purse, which went to her opponent The Ultimate Fighter: Heavy Hitters women's featherweight winner Macy Chiasson.
It was announced during the event's broadcast that former UFC Light Heavyweight and Heavyweight Champion Daniel Cormier will be inducted into the UFC Hall of Fame at this year's class.
This event had five split decision bouts tying UFC 222 for the most split decision bouts in UFC history.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Lightweight | Charles Oliveira (c) | def. | Justin Gaethje | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 1 | 3:22 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Carla Esparza | def. | Rose Namajunas (c) | Decision (split) (47–48, 49–46, 48–47) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Michael Chandler | def. | Tony Ferguson | KO (front kick) | 2 | 0:17 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Ovince Saint Preux | def. | Maurício Rua | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Randy Brown | def. | Khaos Williams | Decision (split) (29–28, 28–29, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Francisco Trinaldo | def. | Danny Roberts | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 30–27, 30–26) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Catchweight (146.5 lb) | Macy Chiasson | def. | Norma Dumont | Decision (split) (30–27, 28–29, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Brandon Royval | def. | Matt Schnell | Submission (guillotine choke) | 1 | 2:14 |  |
| Heavyweight | Blagoy Ivanov | def. | Marcos Rogério de Lima | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | André Fialho | def. | Cameron VanCamp | KO (punch) | 1 | 2:35 |  |
| Women's Flyweight | Tracy Cortez | def. | Melissa Gatto | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | C.J. Vergara | def. | Kleydson Rodrigues | Decision (split) (29–28, 28–29, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Lupita Godinez | def. | Ariane Carnelossi | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–26, 30–26) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Journey Newson | def. | Fernie Garcia | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Brandon Royval vs. Matt Schnell
Performance of the Night: Michael Chandler and André Fialho
The following fighters received Crypto.com "Fan Bonus of the Night" awards paid in bitcoin of US$30,000 for first place, US$20,000 for second place, and US$10,000 for third place.

First Place: Rose Namajunas
Second Place: Michael Chandler
Third Place: Charles Oliveira
