# UFC 113

UFC 113: Machida vs. Shogun 2 was a mixed martial arts event held by the Ultimate Fighting Championship on May 8, 2010, at the Bell Centre in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

## Background

UFC 113 featured the rematch between Lyoto Machida and Maurício Rua for the UFC Light Heavyweight Championship. The two first met at UFC 104, where Lyoto Machida retained his belt in a controversial unanimous decision victory. It also featured the official pay-per-view and introduction of Kimbo Slice into the heavyweight division of the UFC.
For the co-main event, a bout between former Light Heavyweight champions Rashad Evans and Quinton Jackson was initially linked to this event, but was subsequently moved to UFC 114 where the pairing served as the headliner.
Tim Credeur was scheduled to face Tom Lawlor, but was forced from the card with an injury and replaced by Joe Doerksen. 
Joey Beltran was set to fight Chad Corvin, however after Corvin's paperwork was not approved by the Quebec Athletic Commission, Beltran ended up fighting Tim Hague.
Nick Catone was forced out of his bout with John Salter due to a back injury. UFC veteran David Loiseau was supposed to step in as his replacement, but Loiseau was denied a license to appear on this card due to alleged ties to organized crime. Salter ended up fighting returning UFC fighter Jason MacDonald. Loiseau would still make his return to the UFC having faced Mario Miranda at UFC 115.
According to UFC President Dana White, the winner of the Josh Koscheck-Paul Daley fight would receive a title shot with Georges St-Pierre for the UFC Welterweight Championship and be the opposing coach to St. Pierre in the upcoming twelfth season of the UFC reality TV show, The Ultimate Fighter.

## Results

| Main Card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Light Heavyweight | Maurício Rua | def. | Lyoto Machida (c) | KO (punches) | 1 | 3:35 |  |
| Welterweight | Josh Koscheck | def. | Paul Daley | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Jeremy Stephens | def. | Sam Stout | Decision (split) (30–27, 29–28, 28–29) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Heavyweight | Matt Mitrione | def. | Kimbo Slice | TKO (punches) | 2 | 4:24 |  |
| Middleweight | Alan Belcher | def. | Patrick Côté | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 3:25 |  |
| Preliminary card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Middleweight | Joe Doerksen | def. | Tom Lawlor | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 2:10 |  |
| Welterweight | Marcus Davis | def. | Jonathan Goulet | TKO (punches) | 2 | 1:23 |  |
| Welterweight | Johny Hendricks | def. | T. J. Grant | Decision (majority) (29–27, 29–27, 28–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Heavyweight | Joey Beltran | def. | Tim Hague | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–26, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Mike Guymon | def. | Yoshiyuki Yoshida | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Middleweight | John Salter | def. | Jason MacDonald | TKO (ankle injury) | 1 | 2:42 |  |

## Post event

After the bell sounded to signify the end of the final round, Koscheck walked back to his corner with a visibly upset Paul Daley following. What looked to be a gesture of good sportsmanship turned out to be a sucker punch delivered by Daley which Koscheck blocked. In the post-fight press conference, Koscheck went on to say, "Oh yeah, it hurt. It was the best shot he landed all night."  Dana White stated "He [Daley] will never fight in the UFC again."
Kimbo Slice, only 1-1 in UFC fights at the time, was to be subsequently released from the UFC despite losing in only his second fight for the promotion. In the post fight press conference, Dana White stated the bout was "probably Kimbo's last fight in the UFC." He still praised Slice and admitted he made it farther in the promotion than he thought, stating  "He's impressed me as a human being and as a fighter, and I like him and the guys who represent him very much. I'm glad to have met Kimbo Slice."

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $65,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Jeremy Stephens vs. Sam Stout
Knockout of the Night: Maurício Rua
Submission of the Night: Alan Belcher
