# UFC 325

UFC 325: Volkanovski vs. Lopes 2 was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on February 1, 2026, at the Qudos Bank Arena in Sydney, Australia.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's eighth visit to Sydney and first since UFC 312 in February 2025.
A UFC Featherweight Championship rematch between reigning two-time champion Alexander Volkanovski and former title challenger Diego Lopes headlined the event. The pair previously met at UFC 314 in April 2025, where Volkanovski captured the vacant championship with a unanimous decision victory.
A welterweight bout between Oban Elliott and Jonathan Micallef took place at the event. The pairing was originally expected to take place at UFC Fight Night: Ulberg vs. Reyes in September 2025, but was cancelled less than 48 hours before the event after Elliott withdrew due to illness.
A heavyweight bout between Serghei Spivac and 2022 PFL Heavyweight Tournament winner Ante Delija was initially scheduled for this event. The bout was later rescheduled to UFC Fight Night: Strickland vs. Hernandez in February.
A lightweight bout between Road to UFC Season 2 lightweight tournament winner Rong Zhu and Quillan Salkilld was originally scheduled for this event. However, Rong withdrew for undisclosed reasons and was replaced by Jamie Mullarkey.
A light heavyweight bout between Jimmy Crute and Dustin Jacoby was scheduled for this event. However, Crute withdrew due to a ruptured ACL and the bout was cancelled. Jacoby was then re-scheduled to compete the following week at UFC Fight Night: Bautista vs. Oliveira.
Additionally, three Road to UFC Season 4 finals took place at the event. The flyweight tournament final between Aaron Tau and Namsrai Batbayar was also scheduled for the event. At the weigh-ins, Tau initially used a curtained privacy box and weighed in at 122.5 pounds, 3.5 pounds under the flyweight non-title fight limit. When asked for a second attempt without the box, he then weighed in at 129 pounds, three pounds over the limit, resulting in the cancellation of the bout.

## Results

| Main card (Paramount+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Featherweight | Alexander Volkanovski (c) | def. | Diego Lopes | Decision (unanimous) (49–46, 49–46, 50–45) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Benoît Saint Denis | def. | Dan Hooker | TKO (punches) | 2 | 4:45 |  |
| Lightweight | Maurício Ruffy | def. | Rafael Fiziev | TKO (punches) | 2 | 4:30 |  |
| Heavyweight | Tallison Teixeira | def. | Tai Tuivasa | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Quillan Salkilld | def. | Jamie Mullarkey | Submission (neck crank) | 1 | 3:02 |  |
| Preliminary card (Paramount+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Billy Elekana | def. | Junior Tafa | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 3:18 |  |
| Middleweight | Cameron Rowston | def. | Cody Brundage | TKO (punches) | 2 | 4:08 |  |
| Middleweight | Jacob Malkoun | def. | Torrez Finney | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–26, 30–26) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Jonathan Micallef | def. | Oban Elliott | Technical Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 3:31 |  |
| Early preliminary card (Paramount+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Featherweight | Kaan Ofli | def. | Yi Zha | Decision (majority) (29–28, 28–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Dom Mar Fan | def. | Kim Sang-wook | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Keiichiro Nakamura | def. | Sebastian Szalay | TKO (knee and punches) | 3 | 3:48 |  |
| Bantamweight | Lawrence Lui | def. | Sulangrangbo | Decision (split) (29-28, 29-28, 28-29) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $100,000 bonuses. The other finishes received $25,000 additional bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Alexander Volkanovski vs. Diego Lopes
Performance of the Night: Maurício Ruffy and Quillan Salkilld
