# UFC 138

UFC 138: Leben vs. Muñoz was a mixed martial arts event held by the Ultimate Fighting Championship on November 5, 2011, at LG Arena in Birmingham, United Kingdom. The event aired on the same day, via tape delay, on Spike TV in the United States and live on Sportsnet in Canada. The event was the second that the UFC has hosted in Birmingham, the first was UFC 89 back in 2008 also featuring Chris Leben in the main event.

## Background

After several tentatively scheduled 2011 events  at various locations around the United Kingdom did not materialize, including Glasgow, Liverpool, London as well as a planned return to Ireland, it was expected that the organization would not hold an event in the area during 2011.
The main event was the first non-title five round fight in the history of the UFC.
Mark Scanlon was expected to face James Head at this event.  However, Scanlon was pulled from the bout and replaced by promotional newcomer John Maguire Then, on September 28, Head himself pulled out of the fight due to an undisclosed injury and was replaced by Justin Edwards.
Pascal Krauss was expected to face John Hathaway at this event. However, on August 30 Krauss pulled out of the bout citing a shoulder injury, and was replaced by Matt Brown. Then on October 17 it was announced that Hathaway was forced to withdraw from the bout due to injury as well. As a result, Brown was pulled from the event and will face Seth Baczynski at UFC 139.
Phil De Fries was expected to face Oli Thompson at this event. However, on October 17 it was announced that Thompson was forced to withdraw from the bout due to injury. De Fries fought Rob Broughton at this event instead.
Anthony Njokuani was scheduled to fight Paul Taylor on the main card. However, Taylor sustained a whiplash injury during a minor traffic collision on November 1 forcing him from the bout. Due to insufficient time to find a replacement, Njokuani was moved to a future card, while a prelim fight between Cyrille Diabate and Anthony Perosh was promoted to the main card.
This event averaged 1.8 million viewers on Spike TV.
After the event Chris Leben tested positive for illegal substances and was subsequently suspended for a year.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Middleweight | Mark Muñoz | def. | Chris Leben | TKO (corner stoppage) | 2 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Renan Barão | def. | Brad Pickett | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 1 | 4:09 |  |
| Welterweight | Thiago Alves | def. | Papy Abedi | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 1 | 3:32 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Anthony Perosh | def. | Cyrille Diabaté | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 3:09 |  |
| Lightweight | Terry Etim | def. | Edward Faaloloto | Submission (guillotine choke) | 1 | 0:17 |  |
| Preliminary card (Facebook) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | John Maguire | def. | Justin Edwards | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Heavyweight | Phil De Fries | def. | Rob Broughton | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Michihiro Omigawa | def. | Jason Young | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Che Mills | def. | Chris Cope | TKO (knees and punches) | 1 | 0:40 |  |
| Bantamweight | Chris Cariaso | def. | Vaughan Lee | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $70,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Brad Pickett vs. Renan Barão
Knockout of the Night: Che Mills
Submission of the Night: Terry Etim
