# UFC 170

UFC 170: Rousey vs. McMann was a mixed martial arts held on February 22, 2014, at the Mandalay Bay Events Center in Las Vegas, Nevada.
The event was released on DVD on May 27, 2014. The DVD was distributed by Anchor Bay Entertainment.

## Background

A bout between women's bantamweight champion and former Olympian Ronda Rousey and former Olympian Sara McMann headlined the event.
A bout between Gilbert Melendez and Khabib Nurmagomedov was briefly linked to this event.  The fight was later cancelled.
Lucas Martins was expected to face Bryan Caraway at this event. However, Caraway pulled out of the bout citing an injury and was replaced by UFC newcomer Aljamain Sterling. Martins ended up also getting injured and was replaced by UFC newcomer Cody Gibson.
Francisco Rivera was expected to face Raphael Assunção on this card. However, Rivera injured his hand and was forced out of the bout. He was replaced by UFC newcomer Pedro Munhoz.
A bout between Rafael dos Anjos and Rustam Khabilov was expected to take place on this card. However, the fight was cancelled due to injury.
A bout between Rashad Evans and Daniel Cormier was expected to take place on this card.  However, the fight was removed from this card due to Evans suffering a knee injury during training. He was replaced by 4-0 undefeated fighter  Patrick Cummins.

## Results

| Main card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Women's Bantamweight | Ronda Rousey (c) | def. | Sara McMann | TKO (knee to the body) | 1 | 1:06 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Daniel Cormier | def. | Patrick Cummins | TKO (punches) | 1 | 1:19 |  |
| Welterweight | Rory MacDonald | def. | Demian Maia | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Mike Pyle | def. | TJ Waldburger | TKO (elbows and punches) | 3 | 4:03 |  |
| Welterweight | Stephen Thompson | def. | Robert Whittaker | TKO (punches) | 1 | 3:43 |  |
| Preliminary card (Fox Sports 1) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Women's Bantamweight | Alexis Davis | def. | Jessica Eye | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Raphael Assunção | def. | Pedro Munhoz | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Aljamain Sterling | def. | Cody Gibson | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Flyweight | Zach Makovsky | def. | Josh Sampo | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Erik Koch | def. | Rafaello Oliveira | TKO (punches) | 1 | 1:24 |  |
| Lightweight | Ernest Chavez | def. | Yosdenis Cedeno | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses:

Fight of the Night: Rory MacDonald vs. Demian Maia
Performance of the Night: Ronda Rousey and Stephen Thompson

## Reported payout

The following is the reported payout to the fighters as reported to the Nevada State Athletic Commission. It does not include sponsor money and also does not include the UFC's traditional "fight night" bonuses.

Ronda Rousey: $110,000 (includes $55,000 win bonus) def. Sara McMann: $16,000
Daniel Cormier: $160,000 (includes $80,000 win bonus) def. Patrick Cummins: $8,000
Rory MacDonald: $100,000 (includes $50,000 win bonus) def. Demian Maia: $64,000
Mike Pyle: $96,000 (includes $48,000 win bonus) def. T.J. Waldburger: $18,000
Stephen Thompson: $28,000 (includes $14,000 win bonus) def. Robert Whittaker: $15,000
Alexis Davis: $30,000 (includes $15,000 win bonus) def. Jessica Eye: $8,000
Raphael Assunção: $56,000 (includes $28,000 win bonus) def. Pedro Muhnoz: $8,000
Aljamain Sterling: $16,000 (includes $8,000 win bonus) def. Cody Gibson: $8,000
Zach Makovsky: $24,000 (includes $12,000 win bonus) def. Josh Sampo: $10,000
Erik Koch: $30,000 (includes $15,000 win bonus) def. Rafaello Oliveira: $14,000
Ernest Chavez: $16,000 (includes $8,000 win bonus) def. Yosdenis Cedeno: $8,000
