# UFC 157

UFC 157: Rousey vs. Carmouche was a mixed martial arts event held by the Ultimate Fighting Championship on February 23, 2013, at the Honda Center in Anaheim, California.

## Background

The headline bout between Ronda Rousey and Liz Carmouche was the first-ever women's fight in UFC history. The two fought in the newly created 135-pound bantamweight division for the UFC Women's Bantamweight Championship. Rousey was the defending champion, as she was awarded the championship at a UFC on Fox: Henderson vs. Diaz pre-event press conference on December 6, 2012, prior to which she was the Strikeforce Women's Bantamweight Champion.
Manny Gamburyan was expected to face Chad Mendes at the event; however, Gamburyan was forced out of the bout with a thumb and elbow injury.  Mendes was then pulled from the card as a suitable replacement could not be found on short notice. As a result, the bout between Court McGee and Josh Neer was promoted to the main card.
Former SuperBrawl, ICON Sport and EliteXC middleweight champion and Strikeforce middleweight title challenger Robbie Lawler made his return to UFC since UFC 50, facing Josh Koscheck in the welterweight division. This is also Lawler's first fight at welterweight since UFC 47.
At the weigh-ins, Nah-Shon Burrell came into his bout with Yuri Villefort heavy, weighing in at 175.8 lb. Villefort had already agreed in advance to a catchweight bout and received a portion of Burrell's purse.
15,525 people purchased tickets to watch the event at the arena, and there were 450,000 pay-per-view buys.

## Results

| Main Card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Women's Bantamweight | Ronda Rousey (c) | def. | Liz Carmouche | Submission (armbar) | 1 | 4:49 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Lyoto Machida | def. | Dan Henderson | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Bantamweight | Urijah Faber | def. | Ivan Menjivar | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 1 | 4:34 |  |
| Welterweight | Court McGee | def. | Josh Neer | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Robbie Lawler | def. | Josh Koscheck | TKO (knee and punches) | 1 | 3:57 |  |
| Preliminary Card (FX) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Heavyweight | Brendan Schaub | def. | Lavar Johnson | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Michael Chiesa | def. | Anton Kuivanen | Submission (rear-naked choke) | 2 | 2:29 |  |
| Featherweight | Dennis Bermudez | def. | Matt Grice | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Lightweight | Sam Stout | def. | Caros Fodor | Decision (split) (28–29, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary Card (Facebook) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Welterweight | Kenny Robertson | def. | Brock Jardine | Submission (Suloev stretch) | 1 | 2:57 |  |
| Welterweight | Neil Magny | def. | Jon Manley | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Catchweight (175.8 lb) | Nah-Shon Burrell | def. | Yuri Villefort | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |

## Bonus awards

Fighters were awarded $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night:  Dennis Bermudez vs. Matt Grice
Knockout of the Night: Robbie Lawler
Submission of the Night: Kenny Robertson

## Reported payout

The following is the reported payout to the fighters as reported to the California State Athletic Commission. It does not include sponsor money and also does not include the UFC's traditional "fight night" bonuses or Pay-Per-View quotas.

Ronda Rousey: $90,000 (includes $45,000 win bonus) def. Liz Carmouche: $12,000
Lyoto Machida: $200,000 (no win bonus) def. Dan Henderson: $250,000
Urijah Faber: $100,000 (includes $50,000 win bonus) def. Ivan Menjivar: $17,000
Court McGee: $40,000 (includes $20,000 win bonus) def. Josh Neer: $16,000
Robbie Lawler: $105,000 (includes $10,000 win bonus) def. Josh Koscheck: $78,000
Brendan Schaub: $36,000 (includes $18,000 win bonus) def. Lavar Johnson: $29,000
Michael Chiesa: $30,000 (includes $15,000 win bonus) def. Anton Kuivanen: $8,000
Dennis Bermudez: $20,000 (includes $10,000 win bonus) def. Matt Grice: $8,000
Sam Stout: $52,000 (includes $26,000 win bonus) def. Caros Fodor: $15,000
Kenny Robertson: $16,000 (includes $8,000 win bonus) def. Brock Jardine: $8,000
Neil Magny: $16,000 (includes $8,000 win bonus) def. Jon Manley: $8,000
Nah-Shon Burrell: $12,500 (includes $7,000 win bonus) def. Yuri Villefort: $6,550 ^
^ Nah-Shon Burrell was fined and a percentage of his fight purse went to Yuri Villefort for failing to make the required weight for his fight.
