# UFC 288

UFC 288: Sterling vs. Cejudo was a mixed martial arts event produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship that took place on May 6, 2023, at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey.

## Background

The event marked the promotion's ninth visit to Newark and first since UFC on ESPN: Covington vs. Lawler in August 2019.
A UFC Bantamweight Championship bout between current champion Aljamain Sterling and former UFC Flyweight and Bantamweight Champion Henry Cejudo headlined the event.
Zhalgas Zhumagulov and Nate Maness were expected to meet in a flyweight bout at the event. However, Maness pulled out in early April due to injury and was replaced by Rafael Estevam, who was originally scheduled to fight two weeks earlier at UFC Fight Night: Pavlovich vs. Blaydes before an injury also took his opponent. In turn, the bout was scratched the day before the event due to Estevam having weight management issues.
A featherweight bout between Bryce Mitchell and Jonathan Pearce was scheduled for the event. However, Pearce was forced to withdraw from the event due to injury. He was replaced by Movsar Evloev. Mitchell and Evloev were previously scheduled to headline UFC Fight Night: Rodriguez vs. Lemos in November 2022, but Evloev withdrew due to injury. In turn, Mitchell withdrew on the week of the event for an undisclosed shoulder injury and was replaced by promotional newcomer Diego Lopes.
A lightweight bout between former UFC Lightweight Champion Charles Oliveira and Beneil Dariush was expected to take place as the co-main event. However, Oliveira withdrew due to an undisclosed injury. The fight was later rescheduled and moved to UFC 289.
Former UFC Welterweight Championship challenger Gilbert Burns and Belal Muhammad competed in a five-round welterweight bout in the co-main event.
A bantamweight bout between Daniel Santos and Johnny Muñoz Jr. was expected to take place at the event, but it was scratched after Santos withdrew due to an undisclosed injury.
At the weigh-ins, Joseph Holmes weighed in at 189 pounds, three pounds over the middleweight non-title fight limit. His bout proceeded at catchweight and he was fined 20% of his purse which went to his opponent Claudio Ribeiro.

## Results

| Main Card |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Weight class |  |  |  | Method | Round | Time | Notes |
| Bantamweight | Aljamain Sterling (c) | def. | Henry Cejudo | Decision (split) (47–48, 48–47, 48–47) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Welterweight | Belal Muhammad | def. | Gilbert Burns | Decision (unanimous) (50–45, 49–46, 49–46) | 5 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Yan Xiaonan | def. | Jéssica Andrade | KO (punches) | 1 | 2:20 |  |
| Featherweight | Movsar Evloev | def. | Diego Lopes | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Featherweight | Charles Jourdain | def. | Kron Gracie | Decision (unanimous) (30–27, 30–27, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Preliminary card (ESPN / ESPN+) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Lightweight | Matt Frevola | def. | Drew Dober | TKO (punches) | 1 | 4:08 |  |
| Light Heavyweight | Kennedy Nzechukwu | def. | Devin Clark | Technical Submission (guillotine choke) | 2 | 2:28 |  |
| Welterweight | Khaos Williams | def. | Rolando Bedoya | Decision (split) (27–30, 29–28, 29–28) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Women's Strawweight | Virna Jandiroba | def. | Marina Rodriguez | Decision (unanimous) (29–28, 29–28, 30–27) | 3 | 5:00 |  |
| Early preliminary card (ESPN+ / UFC Fight Pass) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| Heavyweight | Parker Porter | def. | Braxton Smith | TKO (punches) | 1 | 2:10 |  |
| Middleweight | Ikram Aliskerov | def. | Phil Hawes | KO (punches) | 1 | 2:10 |  |
| Catchweight (189 lb) | Claudio Ribeiro | def. | Joseph Holmes | TKO (punches) | 2 | 3:21 |  |

## Bonus awards

The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Fight of the Night: Movsar Evloev vs. Diego Lopes
Performance of the Night: Yan Xiaonan and Matt Frevola

## Aftermath

On June 27, it was announced by United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) that Braxton Smith was suspended for two years after a urine sample he submitted tested positive for exogenous administration of testosterone and its precursors in two out-of-competition tests on April 19 and May 4, and one in-competition test May 6.
